THE USURPATIONS AND AGGRESSIONS
OF THE SLAVE POWER.
Look at the extent to which this ma
lign influence has predominaied. The
Slave States are far interior to the
Free States in population, in wealth, in
education, in libraries, in resources ot
all kinds; and yet they have taken to
themselves the lion’s share of the offices
of honor and profit under the Constitu
tion. They have held the Presidency
for fifty-seven years, while the Free
States have held it for twelve years on
ly But without pursuing the exposi
tion of this uame of political “sweep
stakes,” winch the slave power has per
petually played, let us present what is
more important, as indicative of its
spirit, the aggressions and usurpations
by which it lias turned the Federal
Government from its original charac
ter of freedom, and proslituted it to
slavery'. Here is a brief catalogue.
Early in this century, when the
District of Columbia was finally occu
pied as the national capital, the slu\e
power succeeded in defiance ot the
spirit of the Constitution, and even of
the express letter of one of its amend
ments, in securing for slavery within
the District, the countenance of the
Federal Government. Until then it
had existed no where within the exclu
sive jurisdiction of this Government.
It next secured for slavery another
recognition under the federal govern
ment, in the broad territory ot Louisi
ana, purchased from I' ranee.
It next placed slavery again under the
sanction of the federal government, in
the territory of Florida, purchased
from Spain.
Waxing powerful, it was able, after
a severe struggle to dictate terms to
the federal government, in the Mis
souri compromise, compelling it to re
ceive the Slate into the Union with a
slaveholding constitution.
It instigated and carried on a most
expensive war in b lorida, mainly to re
cover certain fugitive slaves, thus em
ploying the unny of the United States
as slave catchers.
It wrested from Mexico the Province
ef Texas m order to xetend slavery,
and triumphing over all opposition,
finally secured its admission into the
Union with a constitution making slave
ry perpetual.
It next plunged the country in war
with Mexico, in order to gain new
lauds for slavery.
With the meanness, as well as the
insolence of tyranny, it has compelled
the federal government to abstain from
acknowledging the ueighbor republic
of Haiti, where slaves have become
freemen, and established an indepen
dent nation.
It has compelled the federal govern
ment to sloop ignobly and in vain to
secure compensation for certain slaves,
who, in the exercise of the natural
rights ot man, had asserted and
achieved then freedom on the Atlantic
Ocean, and afterwards sought shelter
m Bermuda.
It has compelled the federal govern
ment to seek to negotiate treaties for
the surrender of fugitive slaves, thus
making it assert property in human
flesh.
It has joined in declaring the foreign
slave-trade piracy, hut insists upon the
coastwise slave-ttade, and the sanctions
of the federal government.
For several years it rejected the pe
titions to Congress adverse to slavery;
thus, in order to shield slavery, practi
cally deny mg the l ight vf petition.
THE NORTH STAR.
It denies to the free colored citizens
of Massachusetts the privileges se
cured to them under the Constitution
of the United Stttes, by imprisoning
them end sometimes selling them into
slavery.
It insulted and exiled from Charles*
ton and New Orleans, the honored rep
resentatives of Massachusetts, who
were sent to those places to throw the
shield of the Constitution over hei
colored citizens.
It has, by. the pen of Mr. Calhoun,
as Secretary of State, in formal des
patches, made the Republic stand be
fore the nations of the earth as the vin
dicator of slavery. **£oll
It has put forth the hideous effronte
ry that slavery can go to all newly ac
quired territories, and nave the protec
tion of the national flag.
Such are some ofthe usurpations and
aggressions of the slave power! By
such steps the Federal Government
has been perverted from the original
purposes, its character changed, and
its powers subjected to slavery. It is
pitiful to see Freedom suffer at any
time from any hands. It is doubly
pitiful when she suffers from a Govern
ment, whose earliest energies were
I inspired by her breath, and who learn
ed by her teachings to be strong.
So the struck eagle stretclied upon the plant,
No more through rolling clouds to soar again,
Viewed his own feather ou the fatal dart,
And winged the shaft trial quivered in his heart.
Keen were his pangs, but keener lar to feel
He nursed the pinion which impelled the steel,
While the same plumage that had warmed his
nest
Drank the hut life-drop of his (deeding breast.
That we may fully estimate the en
ormity of this system of conduct, we
must call to mind the evils of slavery,
where it is allowed to exist. And here
language is inadequate to portray the
infinite sum of wretchedness, of degra
dation, of injustice, which are legalized
by this unholy relation. There is no
offence against religion, against
morals, against humanity, which may
not stalk, in the license of this institu
tion, “unwhipt of justice.” For the
husband and wife there is no marriage.
For the mother there is no assurance
that her infant child will not be torn
from her breast. For all who bear the:
name of slave there is nothing which i
they can call their own. But the bond-;
man is not the only sufferer. He does,
not sit alone in his degradation. By
his side is his master, who is compel
led, in the debasing influences on his
own soul, to share the degradation to
which he dooms his fellow man. “He
must be a prodigy,” says Jefferson,
“who can retain his manners and morals
undepraved by su&h circumstances.”
And this is not all. The whole social
iabric is disorganized; labor loses its
dignity; industry sickens; education
finds no schools; religion finds no
churches, and the whole land of slave
ry is impoverished.
From the Raleigh (N. C.) Register.
ESPIONAGE OFTHE MAILS.
jgj
The doctrines set forth by the Wash
ton “Union,” and reiterated by the
Southern Loco-foco Press, in refer
ence to the powers and duties of the
Post Master General, would disgrace a
Russian or Turkish despotism. For
the sake of turning the excitable sensi
bilities of the Southern people to pol
itical account, it is boldly maintained
to be the duty of the head of the Post
Oflica Department to authorize his sub
ordinates to open letters and packages
supposed to contain objectionable mat
ter. This principle being once estab
lished, the liberty of the Press be
comes a nullity,and the dominant party
is invested with full powers to suppress
the promulgation through the mails of
any opinions which they disapprove. If
the Post Master General can prohibit j
the delivery of Abolition newspapers
and letters, and authorize them to be
opened, there is nothing to prevent
him from exercising the same censorial
power over his political opponents. If
a Democrat, he may strip the \N hig
party entirely of the use of the mails,
and at the same time make them a vehi
cle for propagating the views of his
own party. We are not prepared to
charge that this despotic principle was
acted on during the last or preceding
Presidential campains, but certain it is,
that it is openly maintained by the Or
gan ofthe late Administration.
If the principle of espionage is allowed
to be correct, it is a mere question of
prejudice and passion in the dominant
party, as to who are to be its victims.
In the exercise of it, the Whigs (if we
can suppose the bigs capable ot
maintaining such principles,) would
suppress the circulation of Democratic
doctrines, and the Democrats those-of
the Whigs, and the abolitionists, in their
turn, would close the mails to both the
other parties. There is no drawing a
distinction between doctrines which
are criminal aud hurtful to the comu
nily, and such as are salutary. What
is regarded as sound doctrine in New-
Etigland passes in South Carolina for
ranting fanaticism. On the other band
the New Englanders look upon the
maxims and principles which are prev
alent in South Carolina as the offspring
of barbarism. There are a thousand
shades of opinion in reference to the
question of Slavery, any one of which
stopping short of unqualified approval of
the institution, would be condemned in
South Carolina as heretical, acd the
promulgator of them subjected to in
sult, if to nothing worse. It would be
dangerous in South Carolina for a man
to utter the prayer of General Cass for
the abolition of Slavery throughout the
world. AH ®uch opinions, therefore,
would be voted incendiary ny a South
Carolina Vigilance Committee, and
the Postmasters would feel bound to
destroy the documents containing them.
Th. vi«w* dailjr pr.i»ul*«Md
CUy
J't M ill' -ii *'f i t
EIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS the FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
Palmetto State as no better than tree*
sod, and are believed to have the ef
i feet of exciting insurrection; yet in the
State of Missouri and Kentucky, they
are daily uttered from the Press and
the stump, and command the respect ot
thousands. In Massachusetts, the gen
timents which pass for Orthodox in
South Carolina, would excite disgust
or ridicule. There is no standing of
ri truth and orthodoxy in politics—at
least none to which all parties refer;
and such beiug the case, the question
j can never be settled, for what object,
j aud to suppress what opinions, shonld
the censorship of mails be exercised?
dgttKain it is, however, that tht South
TshoStd not uphold the right ot r espion
age. She has nothing to gain by it
now, and will have less in future
years, when the North will be so much
1 1 aggrandized by the increase of popu
-1 lation, native and foreign, and by the
I addition of new States.
The immediate cause of the excite
ment in South Carolina, as we Isarn
1 from the Newspapers, is an attempt of
j some crazy fanatic to circulate an ad
dress, intended to operate on the class
of non-slaveholders; and to accomplish
this object, a ridiculou s air of mystery
was thrown around the subject by the
use of cyphers and other secret signs.
llt seems that no evidence exists, how
ever, of a purpose to excite insurrec
tion, but merely to raise up a Free
Soil, or Emancipation party, and but
I I for the stupid attempt at mystery and
concealment, the whole affair would
have passed off without so much as ex
citing a remark. If this is the extent
of the offence of the Abolitionists, there
would be no justification of the illegal
proceedings that have taken place in
Spartanburg. Indeed we see no ne
cessity for legal proceedings under any
circumstance. The law is ample for
i the punishment of the diabolical at
tempts of Abolitionists or others, to
excite insurrection; and public opin
ion everywhere will justify its vigor
ous exercise. Every arm is nerved
for the punishment of such villains,'
and even the summary justice of Lynch i
law maybe excused, though unnecess-j
j ary. But for the promulgation of opin-,
|ions not tending te excite insurrection
I and not addressed to Slaves, hut to
i freeman, we apprehend that neither law
nor justice will justify their forcible
suppression. We cease to be a free peo
ple when we cease to cherish the most
sacred charters of our liberties, the
Bill of Rights, and the Constitution,
both of which guarantee the freedom of
(he Press and of speech. These were
the rights for diitcW our English fore
fathers fought against the tyranny of
Charles II.; and for denying them he
forfeited his head; and it was in the
same sacred cause that war was
waged against James 11. who, unin
structed by the misfortunes ofhis father,
commenced the same career of tyranny
which cost him his throne.
The legality of arresting Barrett in
Spartanburg, holding him to bail, and
in sending him to prison, may be justi
fied, if he had given grounds for sus
picion of tampering with slaves, in or
der to induce them to run away or re
sist their masters; but the circulation of
such documents as have been published
would not warrant, his punishment.
The pamphlets, or letters, are ad
dressed to white men, and, as far as
we have seen, propose no resistance,
open or clandestine, to the laws of
South Corolina. But the proceedings
against the Post Master, Legg, are
wholly illegal, and amount to a nullifica
tion of the laws and Constitution of the
United States. The circumstances are
these—J. M. Barrett, an emissary of
tho Abolitionists of Ohio, or Indiana,
I had been arrested in Spartanburg, and
it was known that he was authorized
{to take from the Post Office in that
place, a letter addressed to one John
i Edward Thompson, and the Committee
afVigilance supposing that this letter
contained evidence of his guilt, deter
mined to have possession of it. For
this purpose they induced a magistrate
Ito issue a warrant against the Post
Master, G. W. H. Legg, compelling
him to give bond for his appearance be
fore the Court of Sessions,with the
letter, as a witness against Barrett.
The Postmaster refused to comply,
j very properly, with this mob requisi
tion, and was sent to prisou for his te
merity. It seems that Mr. ad
mitted, even by the mob, to be a man
j of honor, and bis scruples of conscience
are respected; but nevertheless the be
bests of King Mob must be obeyed.
Mr. Legg alleged, that being a sworn
officer of the United States Govern
ment, he could not deliver the letter to
j any one except the person to whom it
was addressed, or his agent, withont
a violation of his oath; but his excuse
would not suffice, and he; was sent to
jail. He subsequently, however,
thought better of the matter, and enter
ed into the required security for his ap
pearance in Court with the letter. We
j presume he will plead before the Court
the illegality of the bond as a releasei
from its condi ions, and certainly an
American Court of Justice will not in
sist upon their fulfilment. The law
1 has already been violated by the mob
—it remains to be seen whether the
constituted authorities of South Caroli-
I n a sanction what has been done.
The Poet Master did, in the first in-
I stance, what every men of honor and
sense would fool to be his doty, if pla
ced in like circumstances. The law is
so plain that a fool may run and read,
and yet the Washington Union and oth
er unscrupulous Loco-foco sheets are
1 arraigning Mr. Collamer, and the ad-
I ministnations because they have not
1 to exerciM a dispensing power over the
i laws and Constitution of the United
t9mm The baaanees of this dema-
Ifofaiml afTWi, Ute
•t a «wii u so-*-! e*
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, IB4R
tion, cannot failto be appreciated by
Southern men.
There is no power in tha President
or his Cabinet to withhold a letter from
I the humblest citizen, without coramit
f ting the crime of perjury. As to let
ters addressed to slaves They are not
i citizens, and the owner can forbid any
sort of intercousse with them. In fact,
f they have no surname, by which one
may be distinguished from another;and
a Postmaster is not bound to know one
slave from another, they being in the
eye of law, not persons, but property
such is the estimation in which they are
held by the State laws.
After all, there is less danger from
tha sissalsliiis rf such documents
through the mails than is geaerally im
agined. In the first place the slaves
are unable to read; and if white men
are base enough to read such documents
to them, they would operate more ef
fectually. by talkiug with them. As a
proof of the correctness of this view, it
may be remarked, that in Maryland
J and Kentucky, where the opportunities
of the Abolitionists for disseminating
their views are of daily occurence,
the idea of insurrection Is never dream
ed of; while iu South Carolina, and
some of the South Western States,
where no such opportunities exist for
intercourse with the slaves, the public
mind is in a constant state of apprehen
sion and excitement.
THE SLATE TRADE IN BRAZIL.
Corre? pendent of the Tribune.
Bahia, June 5, 1849.
H. Greeley, Esq.: I write this to
give you some information of the Slave
Trade, which is carried on here exten
sively, from the Coast of Africa.
The first thing done is to send a ves
sel with a cargo of goods suited to the
trade, apparently entirely unconnected
with anything else—and really so, as
far as bringing Slaves away in her is
concerned. This is done to prevent the
loss of vessel and cargo if boarded by
a man-of-war, and made a prize of if
anything be found on board to identify
f the vessel as a slaver. The capital
being thus placed where it is wanted,
the vessel returns in ballast, or with
what little cargo can be procured. The
Slave-dealers in Africa, with the goods
thus placed in their hands, buy up tbe
black diamonds, as they term them, and
keep them imprisoned until they get a
chance to ship them in the swift-sailing
small schooners and brigs which leave
here in ballast for that purpose. On
arriving here they land them on an is
land opposite to this place about four
or five mif'&'msiflcnt, dT The cther side
of the Bay of All Saints, on which this
city is situated.
The price paid for bringing slaves
varies from $6O to $7O for every one
taken on board, and $5 to $lO addi
tional for every one safely landed. We
heard of two arrivals of slavers last
week with slaves—one little felucca of
less than 50 tuns, brought 430, and
landed them; and asmall brig (not half
full they say) brought 450, and landed
them also. We hear that the Balti
morean-built pilot boat Henry Clay is
now gone on her eleventh vayage to
the Coast of Africa for slaves in the
four years she has been owned here,
and that she has made in that time oyer
$300,000, for her owners. While
such profits are realized, doubtless men
will be found base enough to run the
hazard of being taken, as no punish
ment follows—the loss of the vessel
and cargo being the only penalty.
It is said that some 10 or 12 vessels
are engaged in the business from this
place alone, and probably four times as
many more from different ports of this
very extensive Empire, though at
present the market is overstocked with
slaves and the price less than usual,
and consequently the trade is not as
active as common.
The goods sent out Jwith which the
slaves are bought are all of English
manufacture, and consist principally of
of guns, pistols, swords, powder and
ball, rum, &c., fit instruments to per
petuate such a trade. Formerly, by
Treaty with Great Biitain, France and
the United States, Brazilian vessels
engaged in the trade were lawful
prizes, but that Treaty expired some
two years since; and now it the Eng
lish take them, it is not in consequence
of any right except the right of strength
and humanity. The Government of
Brazil do not exactly legalize the trade,
though they take no measures to pre
vent it.
There are now lying in this harbor i
a frigate, sloop-of-war, and several
small Government vessels, and yet
vessels are daily arriving and departing
known and publicly talked of as en
gaged in the business. It is said that
the English, with all their professions
of philanthropy, do not by their actions j
give credit to their great pretensions to,
humanity; that it is a fact that in on«j
or more instances slaves taken on thisi
coast have been taken into Rio dei
Janeiro, and the slaves mpprtnhted ovi
I fo r a term of years, at so many pounds
j per bead, and that tbe apprentices are
sure to be only blacks that are report
ed as dying, while one is left.
This is naturally one of the finest
countries in the world, producing with
1 the least possible labor all the produc
tions, of tropical countries. In tbe
hands of an industrious and energetic
Moplc.
irlobe The climate is said to be, and
Lpeir*. bMhby. Ul» M .I*™ coun
tnes labor ia here disreputable, and
any ither way of procuring a living
supposed to be more respectable for
freemen Thank Heaven! such
ions are not prevalent in our part of
the world, and 1 sincerely hope they
may not long influence any part of our
ii Union.
With stneera ragarda, yours, fre #.w.
m
JOHN P. HALE ON SLAVEEV.
This emioent champion of the cense
of Free Soil, (says the Providence
Transcript) who has persevered and
triumphed over the combined forces of
and Democrats, in New Hamp
shire, the ligament of whose union was
a blind subserviency to Southern dicta
tion, has witten a let tter declining to
attend a mass convention in Norwich,
Vt. a portion of which we extract be
j low. It reiterates a truth that we have
stated to our readers, that slaves are
being carried into the territory which
we acquired from Mexico, and this
truth should unite the Free Soil in a
still closer union, and give new impulse
to their efforts in the cause of freedom,
j The extract reads thus:—
The present is a dangerous crisis.
There is danger, great and imminent
1 danger, that slavery will be introduced
I and ultimately established by law in
California and New Mexico. To avert
the calamity so serious to every friend
of humanity, requires the united and
energetic effort of all those who would
avert from our country the reproach,
which would most assuredly follow
such an event. It will not avail to shut
our eyes to the existence of this dauger
and attempt to deceive ourselves with
the idea that it does not exist. It does
exist; it is even now close upon us, and
while the interested and the venal are
lulling us with the syren song that
there is “no danger,” slaves are being
carried into those territories, the clank
ing of whose chains, and the cries of
whose agony, shall fill the ear of the
Most High, calling for vengeance upon
us, if through timidity, party spirit, or
any other cause we hold our peace and
do not do what we may to prevent so
great a wrong. From the foundation
of the Government up to the passage
of the Oregon bill in 1848, Slavery has, j
with hardly an exception, triumphed in
every issue which she has raised. She 1
has made war and peace, passed and
repealed tariffs, moulded our legisla
tion, controlled our diplomacy, and
made the operation of the whole ma
chinery of the Government subsidiary
to her interests. The Whig and Dem
ocratic parties as they have been here
tofore organized, have been as bond
servants to slavery. The ferocity of,
the attack which the organs of the old
Hunker pro-slavery Democracy are
making upon the present Administra-,
tion seems to originate in the fear that j
the Whigs, by their course in the last
Presidential campaign, have done bet
ter service to slavery, than they with j
all their servility in years past have j
been able to render. —S-s-ewryliai nev-t
eryet, with the exception of the Ore
gon Bill, met with a defeat in any
measure which she has seriously ur
ged. That partial defeat seems only
to enrage the Slave Power and excite
it to greater efforts in the great strug
gle which she is now making.
These efforts must be met by cor
responding efforts on the part of the
friends of freedom. The crisis is near,
the day and the hour are at hand.
May God grant that the men for the day
and the hour may not be wanting.

FARTHER ENCROACHMENTS OF I
SLAVERY.
When placing together, a few weeks!
ago, several incidents illustrative of the
tendency of slavery to encroach upon
the rights of Northern freemen, we<
had no idea that the most flagrant,
illustration was yet to be given. But
such is the case. The Charleston
Mercury, of August 29th, contains the
official proceedings of two meetings of
the citizens of St. Peter’s Parish,
South Carolina, held at Lawtonville—-
the first on the Bih of February, 184 W,
and the second on the 10th of August,
1849. The object of the first meeting
is stated to have been to take into con
sideration the fact that Rev. Wm. H..
Brisbane, M. D., is in this section of,
country, and to devise some plan by;
which to rid ourselves of so unprinci
pled a personage.' At this meeting,
which was presided over by Hon. J. D
Johnson, a committee of five, includ
ing Hon. H. Smart, was appointed to
draft resolutions, among which was one
declaring that forbearance on account
of Dr. Brisbane’s 'numerous and high
ly respectable connections,' must have
a limit. The farther proceedings are
thus recorded by the Mercury:—
'About four years sioce, he visited
this section of country, and after his
1 return North gave a garbled and false
statement of his sojourn here, endea-
voting to make capital for himself by
recounting the great personal risks he
encountered in appearing among us;
when, unfortunately for ourselves, he
was permitted to remain and depart
unmolested, sfter having settled his:
personal aad private business having
made no public demonstration of him
self or his abolition principles. But
i during his present sojourn, be has had
the audacity to show himself in one of
oar palpits, there alluding to his es
trangement from his native place not
being the result of choice, but of nec
essity, a necessity brought about by the
force of conscience; then insulting us
with the prayer that universal liberty
might soon prevail.
In consideration of these facts, and
regarding him as we do to be an enemy
to bis country, n traitor to the South,
and particularly dangerous to this sec
tion, where be has the sympathy of the
slaves, having liberated a part of bin
i own bam, we think he should not be
i permitted to rest among ns.
Therefore be it Resolved, That a
Committee of three wait on Rev. Wra.
r H. Brisbane, M. D., instanter, and
warn him to leave the State »u forty
sight hours, or abide the cotmoquencet
from a hitherto patient, but mm iadig*
Resolved, That if the Coaunittei
find Mr. Brisbane unwilling to depart,
that they wait upon the Chairman anti
Secretary, who are charged with dis
seminating the information so as to call
the people together at an early day.
Of course, Dr. Brisbane, hearing of
the above proceedings, fled from his
native State to save his life. One of
his relatives, Dr. T. D. Mathews, ven
tured at the time to say a few words in
behalf of Mr. Brisbane, and subse
quently wrote to him, giving some ac
count of the meeting. Hence a second
meeting was called on the 10th ult.,
which Dr. Mathews attended, and at
which he was accused of having pre
pared an account of the former meet
ing, and sent it for publication to the
North. The Doctor defended himself
by asserting that more had been prin
ted at the North than he bad written—
that he was of Revolutionary blood,
and was never an abolitionist, but
scorned and detested them. Through
this means, he escaped lynching with- i
out flight. The facts in this case give
one an idea of the character of slave- 1
ry, and of that liberty which Northern 1
freemen enjoy in the slavehoiding
States. Sabbath Recorder.
A CONSCIENTIOUS MAN.
“It is refreshing now and then to
hear of the reforming effects of consci-,
ence on men's conduct. We never
hear of a case of money anonymously
returned, or property restored, but that
wc feel better for it, and entertain a
higher opinion of mankind. It is not
often, however, that we can record a
case of conscience so natural, and we
suspect, frequent, as the following, the
1 1 nr tie subjects of such scruples mod-;
stT {.referring to keep their good!
ictos to themselves. By the Constitu
tion of Mississippi, in days past, it was
forbidden to bring slaves into the State
tor sale; but like most other constitu
tional provisions this was construed, as
our Supreme Court, has declared that
all Constitutions should be ‘according
to the wants, interests, and convenience
of the people for whom they are form
ed,’ that is, it was generally disregard
ed. A slave trader named Jones, from
Virginia, brought into Mississippi, for
9ale, some forty likely slaves, and cot
ton being fifteen cents a pound, he
found for them a ready market; in fact,
they were all purchased by one gentle
man, who delighted in the name ot
Brown. By the terms of the sale,
Brown paid one-fourth cash, and was to
pay the balance in instalments, of one
fourth yearly. Sortty after the pur
chase, Mr, Brown was elected a justice
ofthe peace, and discharged the duties
of the station with commendable intel
ligence and uprightness.—The year;
passed off and Jones drew a draft on j
his vendee for the installment due,
which was protested. He
immediately pflid a visit to his debtor,
whereupon the following dialogue took
place.
Jones—Well, Mr. Brown, you did'not
meet my draft.
Brown—No.
Jones—But I suppose you can pay
me the money due on the slaves now
Brown—lndeed, I cannot.
Jonep—Why? Have you met with
any losses or misfortunes, that you are
unable to pay?
Brown—No. My affairs were never
more flourishing. I made an excellent
crop last year, aud have every pros
pect of a good one this, and the price
of cotton is still going up. But I don’t
think 1 ought to pay you.
Jones—For what reason? Are not
the negroes good? have you any fault
to find with them?
Brown—Oh no! They are as likely a
lot as ever was sold, and worth much
more than I agreed to give for them.
But the fact is, things are different
now from what they were then. When
I bought them I was pretty much the
same as my neighbors and did’nt care
much for the Constitution and the law;
but since I have been elected a
Justice of the Peace, and have taken a
solemn oath to support the Constitution
which forbids slaves being bought and
sold in the State, the transaction be
tween you and me was contrary to this
plain article, and I can’t without violat
ing my oath, carry the matter any fur
ther. 1 can’t conscientiously be s
party to an unlawful act, which I would
[be by paying you for the negroes you
had no right to sell. Regard for mj
oath and duty to my country alike for
j bid it.
Jones—Well, damn me! if you are
not the greatest fool or the datn’desi
scoundrel in existence. If your cursed
conscience wont’t let you pay me, give j
me back my negroes.
Brown—Mr. Jones, there is no use
of harsh words, and though grieved at
the violence of your expressions, I for
give you! As to returning the negroes,
1 can’t think of it. You would go and
and sell them to some one else, in vio
lation of the Constitution, which I am
sworn to support, and I would, by put
j ung it m your power to do so, be equal
tly guilty with yourself. I cannot be
jan accomplice in such a transaction,
Mr. Jones What honest man could
No. never.
This was too much for Jooes; bis
t fury overcome him; and we are sorry
to say that he snocked Squire Brown
down; but the Squire was an athletic
i man. and in the fight that followed,
i Jones was conquered with much dam*
i age to hti right eye, and the loan of a
part of his nose. Finding no saiiefoc
-11 non from taking the law into bis own
hands, he applied to the courts for 'be
1 recovery of his debt, but the learned
iodaee decided that the original con
rirSi™, H'<*
rf Ik* BUW, *2 i* T&taoo* Of (NWUt.
[lair, tk*ei*i» *f«Wpltmliffw«M
a*3 m* I
JOHN MCK,
WHOLE NO. 08.
V
•vet! be cc*nsid«r«i j one* petti lev-*
/er s fees and corns, and Brown tod
conscience triumphed.”
A SHORT* inK*ll»R STORY ABOUT
HOT I STY.
One evening a p«or man and his son,
a little bov, sat by the way side near
jhp ga‘e of an old towu in Germany.
The lather to< k uut a loaf of bread,
which he had bought m the town, and
broke it, and g»vo half to bis bov.
“Not so. father,** said the boy; “I
shall not eat until niter you. You have
been working hard ail dav, for small
wages, to support me; and you must
be very hungry; I shall wait till you
are done. “You speak kindlv, my
son,” replied the pleased father;*“your
love to m*> docs me more good than nay
food; an*' those eyes of vours remind
me of your dear mother who haa left
us, who told you to love me as you
used to do; and indeed, my boy, you
have been a great strength and comfort
tome; but now that 1 have eaten the
first morse! to please vou, it is your
turn now to eat.”
“Thank you, iathrr; but break this
piece in two, and take you a little more,
for you see the loaf is not large, and
you require much more than I do.”
“1 shall divide tiic loaf for you, my
bov; but eat it, 1 shall not; I have a
brnidence; and let us thank God for bis
great goodness in giving us food, and
in giving us what is better still, cheer
ful and contented hearts. He who
gave us the living bread from fieaven,
to nourish our immortal souls, how
shall he not give us all other food which
is necessary to support our mortal bod
ies?”
The father and son thanked God,
and th<n began to cut the loaf in
pieces, to begin their frugal meal. But
as they cut one portion of the loaf,
there fell out several large pieces of
gold of great value. The little hoy
gave a shout of joy, and was springing
forward to grasp tho unexpected treas
ure, when he was pulled back by his
father.—“My son, my son!” he cried,
“donut touch that money: it is not
Diirs.” “But whose is it, lather, if it
is not ours?” “I know’ not, as yet, to
whom it belongs; but probably it was
put there by the baker, through some
mistake. We must inquire. Run.”
“But, father, interrupted the boy,
“you are poor and needy, and you
have bought the loaf, and tho bake*
may tell a lie, and
“1 will not listen to you, my o« i y. 1
bought the loaf, I ut cUd not buy the
p;old in it. If the baker sold it to me
in ignorance, i shall not be so dishonest
ns to take advantage «d h<m; remember
Him who told us to do to others”? we
would have others do to us. The haktr
inny possibly cheat us. I nm poor, in
deed but that is nosin. ff we share the
poverty of Jesus, God’s own Son, oh!
let us share, ul=o, his goodness and
his trust in God.—\Ve may never be
rich, hut we in iy always be honest.
We may die of >tnrvatfc.n, but God’s
will be done, should mb die in ditng
it* Yes, my boy, truantJod, and walk
in his ways, and you shall never bo
put to shame. Now, run to tho baker
and bring him here; and 1 -shall watch
the gold until he comes.”
So the boy ran for the baker.
“Brother workman,” said the old man,
“vou have made some mistake, and
almost lost your money;” and he
showed the baker the gold, and told
him bow it inid been found. “Ia it
thine?” asked the father; “if it is take
it away.’’ “My father, baker, is very
poor, and “Silence, my child;
put me not to shame by thy complaints.
I am glad we have ,-aved this man from
losing his money. The baker had
been gazing alternately upon the hon
est father and his eager boy, and upou
the gold which lay glittering upon th©
green turf.—“ Thou art, indeed, an
honest fellow,” said the bak%r; “and
my neighbor, David, the flax dresser,
spoke but tho truth when he said, thou
wert the honestr »t man in our town.
Now, 1 -hud tell thee about th© gold:
A stranger came to my shop thr©©
days ago, and gave me to sell it cheap
ly, or give it away, to the bonsstest
poor man whom i knew m the city. Y
told David to send thee to me, as a
customer, tins rnnrmng; aa thou
won!d«t not t ike the loaf fur nothing, I
void it to thee, as thou knowiest, for
the last pence in thy purse; and the
loaf with ail iis treasure— and certes,
it is not small! —is thiue, and God
grant thee a blessing with it!” Th©
I poor father bent ins head to the ground,
while the tears fi ll from his eyes. Hie
boy ran and put ins hand about hia
neck, and si.id, “1 shall always, like
you, rny father, trust God, and do
what is right; for i am sure it will
never put me t«» shame.” —Ldtnbwrgh
Chn. Mag.
The VV oiui i iski.n.’—in the year
1713, one Jonathan Hastings, a farmer
of Cambridge, New England, used the
word Yankee as a cant phrase to ea
j press excellent; a Yankee (good)
horse, Yankee cider, etc. The stu-
I dents at the college, having frequent
j intercourse with Jonathan, and hearing
i him employ the word on all occasion©,
I I when he intended to express his appro
bation, applied »t sarcastically, and
i] called bins “Yankee Jonathan. It
soon became a cam phrase among th©
collegia”* to designate a simple, weak,
'j awkward person; iron college it
spread ail over the country, till, from
its currency in New England, it was
at length taken up to tlte Englanders
,as a term of reproach It was in con
sequence of this that the song of Yan
kee Doodle” was composed.
If a man could have half his wishes, he could double his troubles.
From the London Standard of Freedom
Meeting to Welcome the Fugitive Slave Mr. William Wells Brown
ON Wednesday evening last, an important  important
meeting wu held at the Leeture-hall. Croy
don, for the purpooe of publicly receiving and
hearing the atatemeot# of that intrepid *l*o
of Ameitc*«» freedom Mr. William
Well# Brown.
The numerous advocate# of anti-slavery
principle# in Croydon having heard of Mr.
Brown arrival in England from America,
where it i# well known he haa labored with
the mo*t itgnal success for the delivery of hie
brethren in Honda, determined them, some
what appropriately, to invite him to make hia
brat public appearance in thia country in a
town so celebrated for it# anti-slavery zeal.
They moreover, resolved to solicit the attend
ance upon the occasion of that eminent
champion of emancipation, George Thomp
son, Keq., M. P., Mr. Brown, having con
cluded hr# mission as delegate from his colored
brethren in the United States to the late
Peace Congress at Paris, where he most
powerfully exposed the desolating influence
of the war principle, practised by the profess
ed followers of the Prince of Peafe, upon the
condition, temporal and spiritual, of three
million!) of his brethren in the Republic of
America, determined to comply with the a
hove request, and to commence at Croydon an
extended anti-slavery tour, which, at the en
treaty of the friends of freedom thronghoui
the kingdom, he purposes to undertake in the
principal towns of England, Ireland, and .Scot
land.
Long before the time of meeting, the Lec
ture-hail was well fi led with a lughly-mflu
ential and attentive auditory, including i.
Morland Esq., of Heath-lodge, who was
called upon to preside G. Thompson, Esq.,
M. P.; Mr. W. W. Brown the Rev. W.
Campbell, D. 'j.\ R. Sterry, Esq.; Peter
Bedford, Esq.; Till, Esq. Crafter,
E»q. Squier, Esq.
The Chairman, in opening the proceedings,
stated that the principal object of the meeting
was to hail the arrival in England, and to in
troduce to the notice of the British Abolition
ists. Mr. William Wells Brown, who had es
caped from slavery in the .State of Missouri,
and had come to mis country with high testi
monials from those vaiious bodies in the
United States who were seeking the emanci
pation of the American slaves. Mr. Brown's
desire was to lay befote the British public
some account of the present position and future
prospects of the oau>e of abolition on the
other sole of the Atlantic (hear).
Mr. G. Thompson also stated, that Mr.
Brow n had been deputed, at a meeting of the
colored inhabitants of the city of Boston, to
attend the late Peace Congress in Pans. That
gentlemen enjoyed the foil confidence and ap
probation of all the parlies in Ameiica who
were earnestly seeking the extinction of slave
ry throughout Ihe great American Republic.
He had for somewhat more than five years
labored unceasingly in the cause of his en
slaved brethren—a cause most dear to him,
inasmuch not only as himself an escaped
slave, hut from the fart of his having at that
tone a mother, throe brothers,and one sister
still in slavery in America, although he knew
not where they were 'ocated. Mr. Brown
had come to England fully accredited, bearing
testimonials of his unimpeachable moral
character, his most self-denying attachment
to the cause of the brethren he had left beh nd
him in bondage, and with 1 lie character of a
man who had, bv his amiable qualities, com
mended himseifi not only to the canfidence,
but to ihe warn) friendship, of the friends ol
freedom in the United States. Thus, sanc
tioned by those w hom he had left behind, and
with one of the best and holiest objects to
promote, he would no doubt meet from that
meeting, and the public at large, ihe mosl
cordial reception and kind attention which, in
such a cause, a stranger was entitled to re
ceive at the hands of a British audience
(hear).
Mr. Brown, in coining forward, was greet
ed with warm applause, which having sub
sided, he said, that, in coming before a Brit
ish public as the advocate of the Ameriear
slave, he had nothing to commend himself ir
the way of educational attainments, having
been brought up under the institution of
slavery, without schooling, or the opportunity
of obtaining that which every good citizen
should possess, and be desirous of atiaining—
education. When speaking in America ol
the friends of the slave in England, every
heart that was capable of beating tor freedom
leapt for joy. ’There was in the United Staten
a higher appreciation of the advocacy of the
friends of freedom in this country than the}
themselves probably supposed. The people
of Great Britain had already done a great dea
for the cause of emancipation in America
I.«et even a small meeting of the friends of ihe
slave be held in England and it was immedi
ately published in America, and men whi
cared nothing about the cause of abolitioi
there, would talk about such a meeting as a
matter of consequence. But the people ol
this country had not only already accomplish
ed much for the American slave, hut tliev
had it in their power to effect a great deai
more(hear). Let an American slaveholdei
he warmly received in any part of Europe,
and ihe whole body immediately rejoice that
one of their number had met w ith sueli an
honorable reception but let him be received
here, as every man should be who robbed a
large portion of his countrymen of their liber
ties, and the Americans immediately take that
reception to heart, and it exercises great in
fluence upon them. No meeting could be
held in this country, no matter for what pur
pose, but especially of a moral and religious
characier, to which the slaveholders ol
America were not anxious to send representa
tives (hear). If a world's Evangelical Alli
ance was projected, or a world’s Temperance
Convention was held in England, slaveiy was
sure to lie represented (hear). If a Peace
Congress was called together in Paris, slave
ry was present. And why was that Be
cause the slaveholders w ished to make slavery
appear before the world as good and tolerable
a thing as possible. Among the first persons
Whom he (Mr. Brown) saw upon the floor of
the Pans Peace Congress were two slave
holders front America, who had come over to
England in the same steam-vessel as himself.
Whether they w ere or w ere not delegates he
could not say but they sat among, and had
the same badge or card of admission as the
delegates, -uid yet it was known to a number
of the members of Congress that those men
were slaveholders (hear, hear). Now had
those individuals been received in Paris as
they should have been received consistently
with their true characters—as men stealers
il would have created a great stir in the
United Elates. Had ’.hey been regarded m the
same manmr as people would unhesitatingly
look upon a horse-thief, orone who committed
high-handed act ol injustice against hi*
fellow men, they would not have dared m re
main in that Congress but, as it was, they
continued there, as any other member,’ until
the close of the bitting. He (Mr Brown)
however, thanked God that the anti-slavery
cause had made such progress wnhin the last
twenty years, that if slaveholders were sent
over to represent the United .States m a
World’s Evangelical Alliance, borne Gamson
would make lit# appearance on the outside
when the meeting was adjourned, and let the
friends of freedom throughout Europe know
that slaveholders had been there and thus
they would be prevented accomplishing that
w hich they had designed (bear, hear, and
cheers). If at a great Tenij>erance Conven
tion slaveholders were sent here to represent
America, some Douglass would there make
his appearance, and create such a stir as
would defeat their purposes and if they got
up a World'•"Peace Congress, some fugitive
slave, hke himself, would break loose from
his chains, make his appearance upon the
platform, and let the people know that slavery
was s'llhu existence in the United Stales,
and that u was not ibai respectable thing m
reality which some Aiuencan delegates would
fain have it appear (cheers). Although an
Amwto huMcit, be (Mr. Brown) recurved
mm prgwnioo in England than be abould tt
f the Untied Suita. Tbt people of England
had bill a very faint idaa of what slavery waa.
They had, no doubt, many of them heard aad
read a g mat deal aboat slavery ia Amenea;
hot bea the friends of freedom came before
a British audience they had to pick and eoll
from the mam of evidence the least disgust
ing details which the auditory would be will
ing to listen to. He dare not bring before
them the horrors of the slave-trade ia Aamti
ca, or what he himself had witnessed of
slavery (heir own mural feeling would not
allow of the detail, or, if it would, be for one
would not be willing to go into those revolt
ing statements. But it waa common in Eu
rope to aak, “Were not the slaves in Ameri
ca bettei off in their aopply of food and cloth
ing than the poorer classes in Europe f” He
(Mr. Brown) would not atop to eoquue
f whether they were or were not better off as
far as food and clothing were concerned he
protested against American slavery, because
it enslaved man, and brought the human being
down from the high position which God in
tended him to occupy, and placed him upon a
lower level than the beast of the field. Sop
pose the slaves in America did in fact get
enough to eat and wear—grant tt all —what
conqiensaiion was that for being robbed of
every right as men Look at the three
j millions of slaves in America wit
ness the slave-trade as carried on in the capi
tal of the United Sutea, in Virginia, Ken
tucky, Maryland, and those places where
slaves w ere raised for the supply of the south-
I ern market: look at the internal slave-trade,
and then ask whether food and clothing was
j any compensation whatever for the depriva
tion which the slaves underwent? He (Mr.
Drown) had not seen a poor man, woman, or
child since he landed upon the British soil
who was worse off than the slaves in the
1 United States. What was food and clothing
to a man as long as he knew that he was a
chattel slave—the property of another per
son What was the utmost amouut of food
and clothing to a man when be knew that he
might be placed upon an auciion-stand, sold
to flie highest bidder, and torn from his wife
j and children and everything that was dear to
him? Then look at the mental degradation
jof the slave. If a man handed a copy of the
Bible to a slave, or taught him to lead the
truths it contained, he was severely punisha
ble by law. Why, only a few weeks before
he (Mr. Brown) left America, a clergyman
thought he was doing service by establishing
Sabbath schools m one of the northern slave
States, by merely getting a dozen slaves to
gether, and teaching them what he conceived
to be the principles of Christianity and yet
that very minister of religion was taken up,
and received for that Christian act thirty
lashes upon his bare back under the sanction
of the laws of the country (hear). No, no,
he (Mr. Brown) would rather bea beggar in
England than the best conditioned slave in
America (cheers). Jf he were to die of
hunger, however, let him perish at least free,
without manacles upon his limbs. “1,“ said
Mr. Brown, “have felt the chains upon iny
own limbs, and 1 have never seen a single
moment since 1 escaped from slavery in Mis
souri that I would exchange for the best por
tions of slavery which I have left behind.
And yet, since 1 made my escape from slave
ry, 1 have had to struggle for existence as
I hard as the poorest man in England, having
come out from under the institution of slavery
destitute of education or friends, in the coldest
winter season, without a penny in my pocket
j orJany to. And yet I had rather
grope my way along, and try toget my living
under the most disadvantageous circumstances
i than serve a single moment under the institu
tion that 1 have left behind me (cheers). It
was a principle in the slave-holding States
that the negroes must be kept in degradation
jin order to be retained in slavery. In 1844 a
clergyman from the North proposed to send a
ship-load of Bibles, and missionaries to teach
the slaves to read them, but he was told that
I if be did so he must send with them another
I vessel freighted with soldiers, muskets, and
bayonets, for the purpose of protecting the
planters, for if the slaves had education they
would not longer be retained in subjection—
i.(hear) —as it wanted nothing but the power
of knowledge to liberate them. When the
i people in this country read of some slave hav
i ing been whipped to death or hung, with on
ly a sham trial before or three slavehold
ers. they were horrified p and yet these were
nothing more than the circumstances natural
ly incident to slavery. Instead of vainly seek
ing to better the condition' of the slave, let
them then seek to knock off the chains from
his limbs, and not be content with anything
short of that. The government of the United
States was on the side of slavery instead of
being the friend of freedom. In its very capi
-1 tal men could obtain the privilege of buying
and selling human beings, and of trading in
human flesh, for the sum of 400 dols. per
annum and in sigh*, of the capital might
be seen negro-pens and warehouses where
men were kept for sale. Andyefthe men who
practised that traffic were the professed
followers of the meek and lowly Jesus
Christians in good and regular standing in
some of the churches of America! (hear).
W ithin the last twenty years the American
government had used its influence for the
spread of American slavery and even where
i it was abolished in Mexico, it had been rein
stated by the United States. If a negro made
his escape from a slave to a free State, and a
Christian man gave him a crust of bread and a
cup o! cold water, that good man was for that
very act subject to a fine of 500 dollars.
When he (Mr. Brown) was making his es
cape he had nothing whatever to eat, except
a few ears of corn which he plucked by the
I way and yet, sick and weary as he was at
i b»st. and almost ready to die, he dared not ask
relief until he saw a Quaker come by (cheers).
Some of the most heroic attempts had recent
ty been made by slaves to obtain their free
dom. One man, to gain his liberty, had
travelled in a railway carriage upwards of
300 miles, packed in a little box, breathing
Ood’s air only through small gimblet holes,
j W ere he (Mr. Brown) about to depict the
1 ,rue character of American slavery, if he
could, he would pluck a feather from the
wing of some fallen angel, dip it in the wail
ings of despair, and write upon the blackened
walls of perdition in characters which would
frighten the hyena out of his ferocity. What
justice was there in America for the slave? A
woman was recently tried for causing the
neaili of a negro girl she was acquitted, on
tiie ground that it was her slave-woman who
actually committed the deed. The slave-wo
tnsn was afterwards tried and acquitted, on
•he ground tnat she committed the murder on
the authority of her mistress (hear). If a
colored man went to Washington without
free paper*, he would be thtown into gaol,
there to remain until he had paid the goal
fees if unable to do so, he waa sold, to raise
the amount of such fees, and the balance of
the produce of sale actually went to swell the 1
treasury of the United States government. He
(Mr. Biown) thanked God, however, that
there was an asylum still left for the slave,
and that the Canadas, at the present moment!
w«re the land of refuge for more than 20 000
escaped bondmen (cheers). Nor could he
convey to that meeting the feeiiugs which
came over him when he landed at Liverpool
and felt that he was really free. Then he
could indeed adopt the language of the poet,
and say—
"frl En MUd old En b,ld! bW»sd and
thse;
tZ? Wuod W>t y bis
old Eugbad, frU,
te M i.
fa-
And the mm of Grant Brtuw my <fcsp
•ee,
Till Iheym with one votes, ‘Lei the kmrndmm
be free!’ ■^wan
Mr. Brown concluded a long and eloquent
apeech amid loud appiauaa.
Mr. Gmki TftWftw, M P. r Urn reta
interest in the proceedings oothe masting- la
s few weeks it would be eighteen yearn mnee
he stood os thftt spot to advocate the elamm
to liberty of 800,000 aim ia the Bfitidl col
onies, tnd he ceeM oot ferget, either the
hospitality with which he wee treated, or
the encouragement that was fires to hue to
proseeste the csese he had undertaken. He
might bow congratulate the friends of free
dbra present, who had haen permitted to share
in that great struggle and to witness its bap*
ay consummation; and he woeld remind the
vonng who would be called ie fetere to per
form labors ie a similar cause, that lew than
twenty reart ago the extinction of diwy
m the West Indian seamed an hopeleaa as the
overthrow of slavery in the United Staten now
appeared. At the time of which be spoke
the highest among the peers and prelates of
England, a majority in both Houses of Parlia
ment, and all the great commercial interests
in the country, were opposed to abditioe; yet,
when the nation or nations became coligh
tened .aroused, and in earnest, the great moan*
ure was carried, and the year of jubilee was
proclaimed throughout the islands of the west.
The trreeiatahle mandate was promulgated,
that the sataoic reign of slavery should cease.
The morning dream of the almost divine Cow
per was realised—the genius of the country
went forth over the sea:—
“She at, and a ahield at her side
ghed light like the soa oa >he waves;
Aad smiling divinely, she said,
1 go to make frtVsw of slaves.*
Aad Britannia, mowaed o’er the waves
For the hatred she ever had mows
To the black-sceptred rulers of slaves,
Resolved to have bom of her own.”
(Cheers). es, the dream ofCowpeiJin 1771
became a reality in 1834; as did also the
prediction of the still living bard of the slave,
James Montgomery, who in 1807, sung—
Muse! take the harp of prophecy; behold!
The glories of a brighter age unfold.
Friend of the outcast, view the accomnlised plan
The Negro towering to the height of man.
For justice, leagued with mercy from above,
Shall reign in all tli** liberty of love;
And the sweet shores beneath the balmy West,
Again shall be the islands of the blest.
He (Mr. Thompson) would call upon all the
fnends of humanity to rejoice over the great
victory. Let them not heed the sordid croak
ings of those worse than Egyptian taskmas
ters, who had no standard by which to meas
ure the prosperity of a West India Island but
the number of cotton bales, or sugar hogs
heads, or rum barrels exported on their own
exclusive profit. Perish, if it must be so,the
sweets of the cane, and the prosperity of the
tyrant planter!—give us in their place, woman
rescued|from the lash—the curse removedjfrom
unborn millions—our nation delivered from
guilt—-and God acknowledged as the only
rightful proprietor of the mysterious and im
mortal being, whom He had stamped with
his own image, and created for his own glory
(loud cheers.) But there was no cause for
fear: it was not necessary that man should be
degraded—that he should be “yoked with
the brute and fettered to the soil,” that we
should have sugar, cotton, or rum:—there
were higher motives than the scourge to induce
men to labor, and when “tyrants and slaves
no more the earth should see,” the cotton
field and the cane brake would bloom and
wave as beautifully and as abundantly as the
rich harvest which God in bis goodness had
granted to this country, or the Indian corn
fields of New England, tilled by the free and
thriving sons of those who stepped ftom the
deck of the Mayflower upon Plymouth rock
(great applause.) He (Mr. Thompson)was
delighted to be present, because it afforded
him the opportunity of joining those around
him in extending a Iraterr al, an English, and
a Christian welcome, on his first appearance,
to the friend and brother before them, Wil>
liam Wells Brown. It was on his account,
and for his sake solely, he (Mr. Thompson)
had visited Croydon. The person who had
addressed the meeting was a stranger; but he
came with good credentials, and was, there
for®, welootno- He need feel himself a stran
ger no longet; he would every where find
i those who would esteem it a privilege to
cherish him and speed him on his way. He
was an American, and therefere, doubly wel
come. He (Mr. Thompson) would have ev
ery American, not a supporter of the horrible
system of slavery, treated with the utmost
hospitality and kindness; that so the bonds of
love and friendship might be drawn closer
and closer still, between those whose altar,
whose language, whose literature, whose in
terests, whose mission and destinies were one
(cheers). Mr. Brown was an American ab
olitionist of the right stamp, snd as such would
i not only be hailed as a friend and a guest,
but united with as a fellow laborer in the
cause of universal freedom; and he would
I find many who would be rejoiced to strength
en bis hands, and those of that most worthy
and courageous band who were waging a sub
lime moral war with oppression, under the
flag which, twenty years ago, had been un
furled by the undaunted Garrison, and ever
i since, w ithout a stain and without a reverse,
had nobly braved the battle and the breeze.
But the chief reason why the man before us
should be welcomed with cordiality and en
thusiasm was, that he was a colored man, and
a fugitive from slavery (cheers). He was
in complexion, in origin, in suffering, in sym
pathy, and in proscription, the bona fide rep
resentative of three millions of men in chains
and of tens of thousands more, held down
by the manacles of a hated and inhuman
prejudice against color. His recognition
that night, therefore, was not a mere wel
come extended by that assembly to an individ
ual, but a recogntiion by those who represen
ted fairly and truly the sentiments and feel
ings of Great Britain of one who was the rep
resentative ol the enslaved and the down-trod
en in all America. Lei William Brown ac
cept it as such, and believe that in taking
his hand as that of a brother and an equal,
we take the hand of every colored man, in
cluding the meanest and the most despised
found within or without the realms of slavery
in the United States (cheers.) in this wel
come there was no condescension on the part ol
those who gave it. The injunction was to
’honor all men.’ The slaves were men; the
most Z effaced and larciated amongst them
was a man. Measured by his capacity for
suffering, for enjoyment, ay and for depte
datum—tested either by his virtues or hia
vices—analyzed by the faculties of hia soul,
by the dread responsibilities from which he
could not escape, by the pries paid for hii
redemption, by the heaven for which he waa
eligible, and by the eternity of suffering at
enjoyment that awaited him—he was a mao;
the equal of the President of the United
Stales; the equal of the monarch of England:
and the equal, in his essential elements, of the
most gifted being who ever dazzled the worl d
by the effulgence of his genius (cheers) Mr.
Thompson, alter enlarging on the character
of American slavery, and making an earnest
appeal to the audience to coounoe their ef
forts in the anti-slavery cause, -by
refertng to the career of Mr. Brown in the
United States, and to the many 1§
which had been foi warded to this eoentry in
favor of that gentleman’s zeal and efficiency.
Mr. Thompson sat down amidst great ap
plause.
The Rev. Dr. Caxpbxll (late mimirmiir
in India moved the following resolution;—
"That this meeting extends to Wilham W.
Brown, a fugitive from the house of bondage
in the United States,sod the representative of
the enslaved three millions of his native laad,a
sordini welcome to the shores of England,
and earnestly hopes that hia labors ia behalf
sf his brethren ie eh sine may wvjmt large
ly to hasten the time when every yoke shall
tie broken, and liberty afiall be pceefeamed
throughout all ike land to all tha mhakiiaam
thereof.”
Ktcaaan Srsaar, Eoq., ascended the reso
lotion, which was carried —mtisnsslj
Mr. TaoMmoM moved, aad Mr. Bsowa
sseooded, a vote of thanks te tha chairman,
which was earned. Aad after alamo n«mhsi
tfMrJßrowa’a narrative had hesa pmekmed,
TkUhwtr Twm-
Atft Co«T«stioQ of the Liberty Party, held
aCortiudviltoM the sth mat., upon of
wfcoae pnmMdng* we find ui »b* Impartial
Griftee, for the aominatioa at State officers,
—doUier boimeoe, the followteg MHMlaat
wen adopted, i
let. Whereas, the people need net anything
aad an oenfo in receiving anything, at the
*»eda at gorernnent, excepting proteetioo
and. even thie, a proteetioo only whereto they
cannot protect themselves:
Resolved, therefore, that government is aa
tnoefa eot of in province, whjp undertaking
l* aftpply its subjects with achosb and roada
aad canals, u it is in its province, when pro
tecting then in their right to persons 1 liberty;
and in their right to participate in the election
of the civil ruler; and in their right to boy
and sell foody in eveiy market; and in tbeiir
right to be seeure from the bornd dangers to
life and property, which all are exposed to,
where government licensee, or permits the
traffic in intoxicating drinks, or, in other
words, the manufacture of mad men; and in
their right to disown ail obligation to pay the
debts of former generations; and in the right
(as perfect as to the light or air) of each of
them to hie needed share of the soil.
3d. Resolved, That we have no right to
patronise the American Missionary Associa
tion, or the American Baptist Free Mission
Society, or any other religious enterprise,
which is conducted by men, who uphold un
righteous civil government, mud vote civil rule
into the hands of anu-abotiiiooists, and land
monopolists, an* rum-sellers, and rum-drink
ers.
3d. Resolved, That, by all our love of
truth and mercy, of God and man, we be
aeech our fellow citizens of every part of this
nation, to aubecribe the following Petition,
and to keep on subscribing it until the aggre
gate of the petitioners be hundreds of thous
ands;
To the Congrese of the United State*
We call your attention to some of the atro
cious wrongs and stupendous frauds done in
the District of Columbia: and, by all that is
Eracious and sacred in the rights of man, and,
y all that is commanding and fearful in the
authority of God, we ask you to put an end
to these wrongs and frauds.
Ist. Daniel Drayton and SayTe are
in prison in the District of Columbia, and they
are to be kept there until they shall have done
the impossible thing of paying $17,760, the
amount of the fines so cruelly and wickedly
imposed upon them. This is their doom,
because, in the first place, there were found
in the vessel, which they navigated, seventy
four of their wretched fellow-beings, who
weie seeking to escape fiom slavery—This
a their doom, because, in the second place,
their judges, adopting the shameful and mon
strous falsehood, that slavery has a legal ex
istence in the District of Columbia, a legal
existence under our anti-slavery National
Constitution —transmuted the merit of these
two men into a crime—their rare merit into a
high crime. With these Judges, who are
guilty of being the servants of pirates, and ol
installing in the place of righteous and holy
law, the assumptions of lawless piracy,
what leas should be done than to impeach
them! What less indeed should be done
with any United Slates Judge, who is guilty
of admitting, in his official capacity, the legs
existence of slavery
2d. The present Secretary of State is guil
ty of prostituting his high office to the service
of the siavehnlding interest. His refusal to
grant "a passport or protection” to Heory
Hambleton, a colored person, was based, dis
tinctly and solely, on the ground of Mr. Ham
bleton's complexion—ls not Congress bouurj
to provide effectually against the repetition
of this scandalous offence
3d. The present Marshal of the Districl
of Columbia, is another instance of the abuse
of official power, which calls loudly for the
action of Congress. He, too, makes righu
turn upon complexion —and he goes so fai
in this direction, as to imprison, and other
wise outrage colored persons, who, if they
were but white persons, would be entirely
unmolested by him. This charge is fully
justified by his recent crime against Edward
Brooks.
4th. There are persons, even thousands ol
them, in the District of Columbia, who are
actually held as slaves !—and they are claim
ed to be so held under the laws of Congres
We, surely, need not say, that there are nr
laws of Congress authoiizing slavery. Ii
slavery can be legalized by any authority, it,
nevertheless, cannot be by a legislature,
whose powers are bounded by the anti-slavery
Constitution 'of the United States.—How
absurd the supposition, that Congress can es
tablish slavery at Westpoint, or wherever it
has a fort or arsenal And yet, if Congress
have power to establish slavery in the District
of Columbia, it has power to establish it
wherever Congie*3 has exclusive jurisdiction.
We respectfully submit, whether Congress,
inasmuch as there is a wide spread deiusiun
that it has power to create and legalize slave
ty, should not hasten to declare that it has noi
such power. But whatever may be expedient
on this point, there can be no reasonable
doubt, that Congress is bound to put an im
mediate end to slavery in the District of Co
lumbia, and to guard against its recurrence
Jy the terrors of the highest Densities.”
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, OCTOBER 6, 1849.
Oar Late An li«Slaverr Tour.
While on the wing, travelling from place
to place by day and speaking by night, I could
give my readers only a dry statement of
facts connected with my meetings, accompa
nied with an occasional remark respecting the
late Anti-Slavery Fairs. I now fee! that a
word is d«e as to the state of the lecturing
field. From the experience of the last four
weeks, and the general aspect of the public
mind in this region,! am satisfied there never
was a tune that afforded a better opportunity
of doing good by Anti-Slavery lectures than
now. The field may be properly said to be
white for the harvest. A general disposition
to hear the subject discussed is manifested
in all quartos; and I am persuaded that if one
or two devoted and earnest laborers coaid be
secured to lecture in the field, they would
not only greatly advance the common cause,
bat secure the prompt aid aod warm sympa
thy of great numbers of the Abolitionists.
The bitter opposition with which the Gatrisou
Abolitionists were once mat in this quarter,
has mostly subsided since those from whom
it formally came, have for the morn part, so
eompletaly fallen from Anti-Slavery grace,
and have accommodated themselves so cutusiy
•ks low Maadaid now adopted by the Free
sod party, or tfao Barnburners, that they have
*ha power, if they bad the dispoamoo, to
preaeat a forrmdsbls (root to a radical aoti
alamy advocate. Scarcely anything re
maiaa to ho combated Jboi open hostility ,u the
■fropo a guilty church sad pto-elsvery
pnmrhsad. The political parties ace au
aqaaUy behmeed in iheir respective postuoos
*h|Md to Slavery, aad ere ae anxious to so
saw the good opinisas of the anti-slavery pob
lie, that thoir lot data m this quarter shrink
frem evert opposition, and prefer to act wholly
on the defensive. They are more disposed to
«*mmoed themselves far thoir snli-eisvery t
Smm—Sm. vd, fc.
at Si mm mm* if

tTZ.tr 11
New y**,’ We not laborer*,
*>d we oaght to ham then b*t 1m! *k*T
«a few number, and are rioeely occupied
inqaaitem where they mil Single band
ed and alone, I shall go facth dating the re
mainder of the aatamn and winter, speaking
to the best of nay ability, and doing ail in asj
power to ealtivate this section of the aatt-sia
▼ery field—r.
Hoaeore Falla.
Oa Tbarsday last, 1 visilad this tnwa, with
a view to apeak to tbe people *ba subject
of slavery Tberehnd boon ao iaUamtion giv
en of my intended Lectors, and of coarse, no
preparations had been nude. I was therefore
compelled either to leave tbe place witbeat a
bearing, or to seek a boose, aod proclaim the
notice myself. Tbe time was short —tbe sun
waa nearly down, and I loand I must do what
was to be dose quickly.
I therefore immediately called on Mr. Og
den a member and trustee of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, in the hope of obtaining
the use of the Methodist House for the meet
ing. I soon found that he had but little sym
pathy with the slave. Instead of replying at
once to my application, be engined,** Axe
you 'one of those that speak dyritnt tW
church? I answered, “I am one of those
that speak against a pro-slavery chnrch.’
Said be you evade my question, Do you con
demn the churches of the north.*’ I answer
ed “Yes if they hold fellowship with slave
holders.” Well, said he, “I am not in favor
of letting anyone into the church who will
abuse it.” He added, however, that if all
the rest were willing he would have no objec
tions.” I next enquired, who the rest were, 1
but from this pious defender of the church, no
answer was returned. I reminded him that il
his church were built upon the Rock, and ij
he believed it to be so built, he could have no
ground to fear that anything I might be able to
say could have the power to injure it, and 1
cited that scripture which states that the
gates of hell shall not prevail against it.' 1
But this was to no purpose since the man wat
probably conscious that his church could not
pretend to be the one described in this passage.
I here turned my back upon the man and hit
church, (finding no sympathy with either,)
and i applied at Beagle’s Hotel for the use Oj
his ball room which was readily granted
to me.
Thus it is, and thus it has ever been. The
cause of (lod is received more gladly by the
world than by a corrupt and hoilow church;
shut out from the house of prayer, it takec
shelter in a ball room and may it not yet be
said, as of old, which is nearer to thekingdonc
of heaven the Pharisee or the Publican
After securing the room, I borrowed a large
dinner bell from the tavern, and proceeding
through the village, proclaimed my owe
meeting. This is the third or fourth time
that I have been compelled either to adopi
this measure or to be defeated in my purpose
to speak to the people; and lam resolved it
pursue this course whenever 1 am persuader
that the occasion requires it, for gonhin
would please pro-slavery Priests and Politi
cians more than to silence the anti-slavery ad
vocate by excluding him from their meeting
houses and by refusing to give publicity tc
his meetings. They shall not have thii
pleasure, although I confess it costs roe some
thing to be under the necessity of resorting
to this novel mode of procedure.
The meeting in the evening although noi
large was attentive, and I had an opportunity
of making known to the people of the place t
few of the reasons why the Methodist Churcl
and other Churches so closely guarded theii
doors against the approach of anti-slavery ad
vocate.
The Ministers and Officers of these church
es know full well that tbe action of the church
i has been on the side of slavery, and they fur
ther understand that a faithful exposure ol
that action would materially lower those or
ganizations in tbe estimation of a candid pub
lic. It is from no motive of shielding any
principle nor of protecting any righteous or
ganization from assault that they oppose the
admissioa of anti-slavery men iute their meet
ing-houses. But they do this with a view to
cloak the wickedness of their siaveholding
position. For such Christians we have but the
same respect that we entertain for the an
cient Scribes and Pharisees which they so
much resemble.—r. d.
Acknowledgment.
We gratefully acknowledge the receipt o
one hundred dollars as a donation from th<
Western New York Anu-slavery Society, it
aid of the Nokth Stab. The Executivt
Committee will acarcelv need to be assure*
us, that this valuable donation is reoeived a
a moment when it is greatly needed. Th<
expense attending the publication of a pape
like ours, is necessarily large and as it ad
vocates the most radical phase of the Anti
slavery movement, and as it is without tlx
ususl agents and appliances for obtain in j
subscribers, it must look, in part, for sup por
from liberal donations by its pe> irons. Tb
Western New York Anti-Slav ery Social;
will therefore receive our sincere thanks fo
their timely and valuable aas» ranee. W«
eannot, however, allow this ackn owiedgmerx
to go forth, unaccompanied by an expression
of onr deep and warm gratitude, eepecia 11]
to Mrs. Amy Post, and to Misses Julia an'
Et.xi Griffiths. To them, more than to say
others, the Executive Comauttee are indebted
for their ability to make the vafauble donation
ia question. Those ladies have devotsd ai
■oat their whole ume for six weeks past,
m wdaatnonsly for, sod attending
the Fans advert The inaaoer in wbieh
they have ateormed the cnrreet of oppeoitieo,
coldness and indifference, overcome pre
judice, and the various obstacl es throws is
their way m admirable sod roul-cbeenng.
We tegr,4 the gnus rone ro npst iturn of thasa
invaluable; sod wt Iwheve that
while they will do a noble work fo* the slave,
will ears for themselves foe nooidaaea
*°d esteem of the slave’s heat friends,
wherever they go. Bet while we thank font*
d r we do not forget foe saleable
assistance kindly extended to them by the
Anti-Slavery ehefos is the towns whom Fain
KaTe bens held. Them am many whose
names ws might t mention in this eonnnctien
W. «k«ld 4. m tat dm w. taf. tan
p O Mb. n||,
fas pllb,
r<M,«kwk S.M.,
kud ikadi from whom wo boro received
geetnms sid.—f.
Tk« RMiMMI LMfM.
Owieg to our itiiiM for time and out
many labors is ike Iscturisg deportment, we
bar* not bam able to five attention to the
various responses from oar brethren in differ
ent pans of the country, in fovor of this organ
iaaiion. We assure our Philadelphia friends
espaeiaily that we shall continue to press this
matist upon the consideration of our readers,
aod as soon as it is practicable shall go forth
and commence the work of organisation.
The foHowtnglresoltttton adopted at an ad
journed meeting for organising a branch of
the League, meets our moot hearty appro
bation.
That we reapectfnlly suggest
the additional article to the Constitution pto
posed that one or more agents be employed to
travel and lecture under the auspices of the
institution, to form auxiliaries—collect funds
—and secure members to the same. We
would also suggest, that the place for hold
ing the first Convention be designated by a
majority of the respondents—reuiat king,
should Philadelphia meat their approval, we
cheerfully welcome them to out city.
We deem it of the utmost importance, that
a Convention of delegates from Branch
Leagues should be held as early as the Ist of
May, 1850, —and in order to do this, we shall
draw up a call and shall solicit the opinions ol
our brethren as ?o the place of holding this
Convention—and shall also request such as
approve our aims to subscribe their nara es to
the said cal).
From every view we can now take of the
interest manifested on the subject in various
quarters, we decidedly prefer Philadelphia as
the place of our first meeting. It is there
that the idea of the League meets the warm
est approbation; it is there that the largest
colored population reside it is there that the
North Star receives the most cordial support.
It was there tbe great American Anti-Slavery
Society was organized, which has shaken the
land from end to end; and it is there we would
have the first good demonstration of the
union of the oppressed for the take of free
dom.” Its position is central, and there are
facilities for reaching it from all quarters but
we hope to hear the views of olhers on this
subject. Meanwhile we say to our brethren,
let nothing distract your attention from this
proposed effort to secure an united struggle in
behalf of oar common freedom and eleva
tion.—r. n.
Abby Hutchinson Patten,
This charming little songstress, we are
sorry to learn, has been suffering long from
severe illness but is now sufficiently conval
escent to be removed from her mountain home
to the Water-cure establishment of Dr. Kitt
redge. Under this treatment, it is hoped that
she may obtain permanent relief. We hear
that herself and husband have given up public
singing. This, we opine, will be sad news to
the music-loving part of the community.
The Hutchinson Family,” without Abby,
would present a lonely aspect; and the bro
thers must seriously feel her loss but how
ever much we may be disposed to sympathise
with them, we admire the feeling so happily
expressed by her husband, in a letter to us
from him I want Abby as my private com
panion, and not as an amusement for the
crowds.” Mr. Patten, as soon as Abby re
covers, expects to settle on a farm near the
city of New York, or in Dartford, Ct. It is
needless to s3y, that this loving pair will
carry into private life the warmest regards
and the best wishes of the thousands whom
they have so much delighted and improved.
—F. D.
Joseph Barker. —Not knowing in what!
part of the country this gentleman iaat the!
present, or where a letter would be likely to
find him, we take this opportunity —at
the request of the Executive Committee—to
extend to him a cordial invitation to he pres
ent at the Annual Meeting of the Eastern
Pensylvania Anti-Slavery Society, which is
to commence its sessions at Norristown on the
15th of October. If Mr. Barker should be
any where within convenient reach of us at
that time, we earnestly desire that he will fa-
j vor us w ith his presence.
We are requested also by the committee
to extend the same invitation to all persons
everywhere who may be in sufficient sympa
i thy with tbe doctrines and measures of theso
eiety, to enable them to participate in the dis-!
i cussions and co-operate in the object of the
I meeting.
j The above notice appear* in the Penn
Freeman, of the last week, with a reqoest to
copy. The following letter, just received 1
from this distinguished reformer, convey* in-j
j telligeoce which will be pleasing to many
r friends of the slave in this country; and wilt
1 serve to inform our Pensylvania friends of
1 Mr. Barkers intentions:
Os Board tmc Steamer
Off Detroit, Sept. 88, 1849. J
Mr Dear Friend: I had intended to call,
on yon on my way westward from New York;
bat I bare been detained ao long on the sea
and at New Yoik, that I really durst not do
it. I wanted to see tbe country before the
cold weather came on. I shall bo on my
l way back to New Yoik in about ten days,
1 when 1 shall try to give you a eall at Rocb
-1 ester. I am well, aod have Imm well pleased
r with the country ao for. If I can so arrange
r ms tiers, I shall, if all be well, return to tbin
country with ray family, to settle here. J
think I shall settle in Ohio, near ray broth
ers Samuel and James, in Summit Co. I had
intended to lect a re a little in America, before
1 my return to England, but my work has been
sufficient for me. I most lecture when 1 eomc
u v settle. I shall not be in a burry to return to
then, perhaps.
I am, joars affectionately,
J. BARKER.
T«t Finn of Youth.— The National
Era of la at week pehhshes the Prospectus of
a new monthly, coder ibis title. “Out ob
ject,” says tin Prospectus, “will be to make
the paper a a attractive companion for youth.
It shad alee he oar ear* to interest them on
aU the great subjects ooeaected w ith tbe well
heaeg ef mankind. Freedom, Peace aod
Tempcrawoe, shall receive out eataect advo
cacy.” The paper will be added by Mra.
Masoarxv L. Baiunr, mewled by T. 8.
Arthur, Emma O. E. N. Soutbworth
tod ether distinguished writers. Tbs first
m tmbsr wfll be issued oo the first ,*T Nov**.
T. u Ftmsca Mihistsr. The Fiewch
Blmfc to*» Fmwsia, Wsshfogisa, bat
tatam ho shortly to iiiwsi to New Yaik,
whose he wdl rswiin eetd he hitoe seme-
Foreign lltvi of tk« Wnk.
The steamer A menca which sailed from
Liverpool on the 13th git. arrived at
Boaton on the 37th,«nd brings no nears ol im
porta nee. The Captain (Shannon) was ark
Kieu.io. The cholera was still on tbs
increase in London, and spreading extensive
ly over the country The number sf deaths
in ihe metropolis, on the llih ult., was 475
on the 12th, 361. ,4s an evidence of ths
great prevalence of the' epidemic, in its milder,
and more maiignanr forms, it staled that of
the list of tradesmen celled to serve on ibe
Jury st the Surrey Sessions, eveiy other name
was excused on the ground of suffering from
diaarhoea and cholera. They were all sum
moned from the neighborhood of Kenmngion
road, where it seems the disease is frightful!?
pievalent. Two of ihe principal witneseea
against Manning and hta wife have fallen
victims. A fast on account of the epidemic is
sidl talked of. Summonses have been issued
from Whitehall, convening a Privy Council to
meet her Majesty far away in Scotland for h«
purpose of ratifying a paper to be used forth
with in all the places of worship belonging to
the Establishment; the seid document having
emanated, no doubt, from Lambeth Palace
How ridiculous!
Cannot people fast, in these daye, if they
are so minded, without a proclamation to that
effect from a Queen or a President l It would
seem as if men were never goi ig to ,get out
of the leading-strings of kingcraft and priest
craft, In our humble judgment, this tasting
business, when done at the command of any
political or government authority whatever,
w hether in the shape of a king, president, ot
Established Church, is simply, a very aublims
farce. What have they to do with the private
religious observances of any man T Govern
ments are forever stepping out of their place
Let them protect, as tar as they can, life and
property; and little more need be required ot
them. Experience would seem to te3ch, that
it is not sale to trust them farther. Where
is the act of administrative duty w hich Gov-
ernments have not abused, in one way or ano
ther, either bv making them vehicles of cor
ruption, or by direct and unjust oppression
Especially has religion been made the effec
tive tool of Governments. In this country,
we are happily free in a gteat measure, from
interference with the right of private judg
ment on religious matters; though new and
then, as in the case of the recent fast, a ridi
culous attempt is made, under the influence
of zeal and bigotry, to make men religious by
order of the President. The Standard of
Freedom say 3 of this travelling to Scotland
tor the Queen's authority to use a certain
form of prayer—“lt is as if an Austrian sub
ject should be compelled to navel from Venice
to Vienna to obtain the Emperor's signature
to a warrant authorising him to lake a p.ll'’’
Ihe Committee of Investigation on the
York and North Midland Railway have com
pleted their business. They make some vary
startling disclosutes. After detailing one ef
the most flagrant cases, the Tunes observes
respecting ex king Hudson—
The proofs of this man’s guilty system of
duping the shareholders who entrusted the
management of their concerns to his honor
and integrity have already been so numeious
as to be absolutely sickening. Such acts ars
very vulgar arid common-place pieces of ro
guery after all. The strange thing is, the
length of tune during which Mr. Hudson con
tinued his career undetected and unpunished.”
The Queen and Piiiice Albert were still at
Balmoral. The Prince is making himself
quite a favorite in Scotland, by his frankness
and contempt of dignity and ths matrons of
Balmoral eulogise her Majesty on account of
the plainness of her dress and ths humility of
her depoitment.
In Ireland, the violence of the cholera epi
demic is thought to have abated. Visitor#
from England are crowding over in great
numbers. Harriet Martineau, Chaa. Dick
ens, John Bright, M. P., are making s tour
of inspection, of the island. Ths harvest
prospects ot Ireland are favorable. Ths Bel
fast Vindicator, in an article, on tenant right
and the rights of landlords says:
“The ciop is luxuriant, no doubt; but
great fears of the |>stsio diaeass very justly
agitate the public mind. Add to this the
plain fact, that now, m the fourth year of a
fierce, unmitigated famine, the country is
idtslly depending on the produce of the pres
ent harvest. Free trade has put rent pruet
for provisions out of ths question, snd a uni
versal reckless desire to prolong their lives
has suddenly seised the people from one end
of Ireland to the other. They have, there
fore, no stomach fut paying high rents, nr, tu
fact, any rents si all, while the angel of death
by starvation hovers round the door.”
The writer goes on to say, (and there is
doubtless much truth in his remarks) that
the contributions sent front Europe, Asia,
and America, to stay the band of Death in
Ireland, have only filled the pockets of the
landholders. “While the people were beg
ging and receiving aline, the landlords were
driving and collecting rente.” The landlords
of Ireland have little now to expect from that
aoorce. They have done much, by their cruel
exactions, to bting ruin upon then selves.
Had the? thought more of the welfare of
their tenants, tbsn of wringing from them
the means of satisfying (heir own luxurious
appetites, they might ha?e to a great si
lent presented the mi series of Ireland. The
long-continued famine baa wrought the irre
trievable rota of many of tbeir number and
they receive no sympathy. The Prince of
Wales baa been created Earl of Dublin.
Fiance. The French have been living so
long in sn atmosphere of excitement, tbit
they are apparently unhappy, when aß( j
order are in the ascendant. A slight emeuie
lately took place to Paris, which was quelled
by the police, wttbout say bad revolts. Unul
the meeting of the National Assembly in
October, it will he impossible to judge cor
rectly of the intention) of the Executive.
Iht notion is aow prevalent in Pane that
Louie Napoleon baa determined te aide with
the liberal pen of the Cabinet. Condemns
Uom far political offences stiti proceed Oca
very atrocious east mentioned that ot M
K a ret, who baa been condemned to ten years
imprisonment for libeb, and was compelled to
valk one bundled miles to the piece of bis
imprisonment, between two gendstmee
Some rather serous disturbances have taken
piaoe in Urn provinces. The President has
written a letter to bt* friend Edward Ney, in
which be any?, that be d:d not seod an army
In hnly to put down liberty but u» ingulate it,
by placing it upon a solid basis
Italy. Letters from Rome to the tth
Mention that the ethnic there is becoming
more menacing. A ruptare more imminent.
It war considered probable that the Pope
would end by placing himeelf under the Aua.
trtan flag, Ijettere from Naples of the 4th
mat-, announce the arrival of the Hope at
Naples.
A letter from Genoa announces the arrival
ot Gaiihaldi in that city.
Hungary. The news from Hungary u
without interest. Comorn and Peterwardem
have not yet surrendered. All the Northern
-States of Germany, except Old Edeoburg,
have acceded to the alliance proposed bj
Prussia, Saxony and Hanover. No news ol
Kossuth. The London Standard of Freedom
says Of Gorgcy’s treachery there can In
little if any doubt; but the whole of Kossuth 1
conduct during the war has been marked by
such a noble and disinterested principle thal
to suspect him of acts of baseness would be a
kind of sacrilege.— s. n.
From out' Lug i«*n Conosjrondeiice.
Ayr, Sept. 10, 1849.
Diar Friend —The state of Eutope ii
•ue.t that 1 avoid musing upon it, talking ol
it, and willing about it.
Hungary, the heroic, and I hops the in
domitable, is now held down and torn by the
ulons of the two Eagles. Eagles !—Her
aldry must he wrong. The foul birds should
b# Vultures—far more fitting symbols.
Then, the valorous and highmittded Ro
mans after all their achievements in arms,
and soaiings to th regions of liberty and
light, to see them doomed to the dark dun
geons of the inquisition, to be taught the
Cardinal virtues in that Satanic school! Oh!
ona cannot dwell upon the prostration ofone'i
hopes, the prostration of one's faith, the fal
sification of one's pred.ctions And Bntain and
America stand,ug alool during all the*) tians
aciions! Non-mteiference indeed Was the
Russian coalition a non-interference 7 Did
not that afford sufficient justification for the
anly free nations to interfere
Would the United States have accomplish
ed their independence without the co-opera
tion of Fiance 7
Would Great Bntian have ventured for
freedom without (he aid of a Dutchman! In
both thebe cases without foraign interference
the issue at least w as doubtful.
Suppose the three millions of American
subjects now held in worse than Egyptian
bondage were to arise and attempt their
emancipati on, wouid it he criminal for their
sable brethren in Haiti, who have won theirs,
to “come over into Virginia” and Maryland,
“to help them 7 Pshaw this non-inter
ference cry is diplomatic cant. It is a hypo
critical maxim of jealous rulers, who are as
fearful of a people's strength as the Philis
tines were of Samson's, and secretly exult
that it has been shorn by the Despot’s swords,
as much as the Philistinesdid by the kindred
operation by Delilah's scissors.
To pass to more cheering signs, what will
be thought on the western side of the Atlan
tic of the reception of the too sable advocates
in the Peace Congress at Pa ns 7
Be assured th it the day hasteus when
color, shall be no badge of nilertority among
men, as it assuredly is not- with the Creator
who gave a soul of the same hue to all. ’Tis
the sui.beams that have darkened the
hue of the skin. ’Tia tyranny and vice that
have changed the purity of the sou!. Ves—
this day will as certainly arrive, as the dark
portion of the crescent moon will emerge in
to silvery effulgence.
The peace movement has a more formidi
ble antagonism to oppose it than expence or
bloodehedding. If aihitration settle all na
tional quart els the arguments for standing
armies are cut away, and these abolished,
up rises the majesty of the people, in all its
natural inherent might scaring despotism
aw ay to the “daik parts of the earth.”
Yours very sincerely,
E. B.
The Cuban Rebellion.— The Washing
ton correspondent ol the Baltimore Sun makes
the following statements.
“Dispatches, we understand, have been re
ceived from the American consul at Havanna,
confirming, in a great measure the rumored
insurrection in Cuba. A soldier in the can
topian Regiment, while on parade, was heard
to shout “Viva la Repubhca!” “\iva Gen.
Lopez”
The officer in command immediately drew
his sword and advanced to cut him down,
when at the instant another soldier levelled
his musket and shot the officer through the
heart. Gen. Lopez, for whom the soldier
shouted, is the Spaniard who has already
made some noise m New \oik, and is be
lieved io he one of the principal movers in the
late “secret expedition.” If proof were ne
cessary to show that the object of the expedi
tion v\«is a descent upon Cuba, this would go
far to prove it. 1 he Cuban Government
were serioulv thinking ot letting the slaves
loose against the insui gents and if this hor
rible* plan is put hi operation, we may look for
a repetition ofthe Rightful scenes of St. Do
mingo.
The New Orleans Bee says, we have been
favored bv a friend with the perusal of a pri
vate letter from Havana, coining fioin a well
informed source. It furnishes some mteiest
irig information touching I lie seditious move
ments in the Island. It appears that at Puer
to Principe ihe Cantabrian Regiment had re
volted and pronounced in favor of Gen. Nar-
CiSso Lo|* z, w ho, our readers will remember,
escaped some mouths a(*o lro:n Cuba, where
sentence of death had been pronounced a
gaiust him, and is now in the I'mied States.
The regiment openly rebelled, murdered their
Colonel, and killed and wounded several of
11, e officers. As soon as the intelligence
reached Havana, prompt means weie taken by
the( apiam General to suppress the cmeute. A
large number of troops, consisting ot three
baiiallK.ns of the Havana regiment, the Ba
tallor: de Kspana the Mule Artillery, King s
Lancers, and the Rural and Militia avalry,
w ere forth with despatched to Puerto Principe
anii Tnuuiad. All the merchant vessels ett
gaged in the coasting trade were pressed into
the service, and employed in the transporta
tion of troops. Them were no Spanish men
oi w*i in ihe port—the only one there, the
bn;* Patriots, having been freighted with pro
visions and amumt. on, and sent off at midnight,
on tnc 2d.
ft The authorities appeared to consider the
affair very serious, and were determined to
crush it in the bud. Their preparations were
made actively, extensively and secretly; and
ihe public panic is inert as d in consequence
of the absence of correct ai d specific informa
tion in relation to the out-break.
The American press is just now in very bad
odor with the Captain General. He lias is
sued a decree interdicting the d siribuitun ui
any papers coining from the United .Stales,
excepting La Chronica, of New-York. All
others are detained m the posiofiice and
burnt.
The Homce ifathic Times says: “Honueo
p&thyc enjoys the confidence of some mem
ber. of the royal family, who, when attacked
w«ih disease will not be ueeted according U
wy o»hcr syiieja.” Jmms
BiUkllikmat rf Mnr tor Um UtU
k? the Colored Ohio *c.
To M. H. Be&)(■ am, Lanatillt, Oho
Dbab Sr«l koto received your lettei
deled Sept. sth in which you suggest Dm
enterprise of eeubiiefeof newspaper to bt
located et boom eligible pent ie the State ai
an organ of the colored people of Ohio, oe
heating my advice and opinion on the subject
and alto my semcts at the head of the enter
print at oittor tod conductor of inch paper,
should it established.
I am fully eentible of tba purity of Um
motives and the pressing demands vrbicl
prompted tbe faithful enterprising gentlemen,
our brethren, to suggeat such a movement
and should be stupidly vain indeed, did I no
acknowledge the compliment and defercnct
paid, and the confidence reposed in me, bj
selecting me to head the noble bend of color
ed freemen of your State, in an enterprise
laudable, honorable, philanthropic, and inevi
labiy glorious, could tbe project be tweceas
fully carried out. You set an estimate upor
my knowledge of the State, and aak my opin
ion accordingly. 1 shall at ooce proceed to
give that opinion unreserved and unrestrained.
Having traversed the length and breadth oi
your State during five months of the last
year, I acquired a tolerable knowledge of the
condition and resources of our brethren ol
Ohio, and their probability of auceese in the
event of such an issue.
The colored population of the State, is
now using twenty thousand, a body of people
in all conscience much too great to he without
an organ or special advocate. Making the
allowance of one sixth of this number only,
it gives three thousand, three hundred and
thirty-three families, who should be sufficient
ly adequate to the sustenance of any single
newspaper. Theae families it must be admit
ted are generally well to do—being industri
ous; they are mostly property holders, many
of whom are farmers and mechanics, and
oonaequently, men and women of means and
money.
But there is another consideration. In no
rms community in the State, is there a tbous
»nd of a population of colored people save
Cincinnati and Columbus, the former of
which is rising five thousand, and the latter
me. Again, to ensure the success of a news
paper, two things arc necessary—a reading
and a business community. The first to en
sure subscriptions, and the other support by
advertisements. These are what give life to
and ensure the existence of the various pub
lic journals of the country, except the re
formatory, which are always a drag and bur
den to their conductors, drooping through a
period of beggarly existence, coming at last
to a pitiable end. Such a result should be
henceforth studiously avoided by us in every
enterprise, having ever occupied a beggarly
position, and God knows, only regarded as
he objects of pity.
In any given number of colored families
where the heads consist of elderly persons,
here is always a ratio of two thirds who
tannot read, leaving but one third, but a
Kirtion of whom are in circumstances that
will justify them in supporting a paper; but a
faction of which portion again may be wili
ng, allowing all reasonable excuses and ob
ections so common among our people. This
slimate will hold good particularly among
he three thousand families in Ohio, (Cin
cinnati being an exception,) as the greater
part are immigrants from different parts of the
South.
Three thousand families, remotely scattered
jver the State, with no one community suffi
sient to sustain such a project; with all their
various misconceptions and prejudices—pre
dilections and biases, imbibed and instilled in
the South, and the difficulty in obtaining
suitable agents to secure subscribers and col
lect money sufficient to sustain the enterprise,
renders the undertaking at once so difficult,
that it looks in the distance to be insurmount
able; and having had seven years’ experience
in editing and conducting newspapers, and an
ixtensive acquaintance among our people—
with their situation, condition, and otherwise,
in other places as well as Ohio, I unhesitat
ingly expreas my doubt of the ultimate suc
cess of the project, believing that it would
end with great losses to the undertakers, and
in its failure, produce consequences that
would give much cause for future regret.
There are at present two or more news-i
papers in existence published by colored men,
devoted to the cause of our people all of
which are merely dogging at the threshold of
loubta and fears—asking aid at the gateway
et impatient benevolence —their conductors
depending upon personal friends, to whom
they are almost compelled from necessity to
rater and pander for their scanty means of
lubsistence. If one or two papers cannot be
fustained, surely an additional number must
make the prospects slid the less and in my
tumble opinion, I should much prefer that we
would suppoit one good paper, ably and pro
»er]y conducted, adapted to our demands,
wants and condition than to have several iu
sxistence, barely floating with exhausted
wings upon theebbing-tide and worn out pati
ence of Philanthropy—gouging to tbe vitals,
rad abstracting the very life-blood of the
rharity of the public and community in which
;hey exist.
1 have, Sir, other and personal objections
to entenng into such an enterprise. I have
never been sufficiently successful in the cause
jf our brethren to have s value set upon my
•fforts. I have labored for nought, and re
vived nothing. If I except the use of fifty
lollais borrowed from a donation of one hun
dred dollars, presented by the Ladies' Fair to
tbe North Star, which sum I have still to
pay, the present of a sum of ten dollars, and
various articles of clothing for myself and
wife and little children, during my stay in
Philadelphia last winter, by several excellent
colored ladies, is mors than I ever before re
alised, during seven years labor as editor of
Jifierent papers, the last eighteen months of
urUicfa time, were devoted entirely to the cause.
I am fully persuaded, that to embark in a
new enieipiisc of this kind, would be heed
less in ms, and the last precipitous stride and
gasping struggle to the certain starvation of
mv family, whom 1 «n bound by all ths urn
j( consanguinity *nd self-respect, and what
stronger than self love—of conjugal and
filial affection, to protect and support—pro
tect alike against starvation as wallas oppres
sion sod personal injury and abuse. This I
hope will constitute sufficient icaeau hi my
personal abjection to tutoring into ouch un
•ntorprios, though tM» «p» *lN»l ffiigkf
give. My win* Mm far fat faniiM
•«r nee, bn taiMi m 10 sacrifice Mi
(bn 1v« »W* to bw mats then njAm
I voaU ikwfwr Mat covifally mm
mead to oar people thronchout this country
to rally aroand dm Aort fair, t paper op»
whieb largo otnao of mooey, much means
tiM andlaleot bona been tad ate atili beta]
tapaadad, poMiahed m Rochester, N. Y.
I and ably edited by Ftaderidt Douglass, i
I brother, who baa “boras the heat aod burdei
of the day” of oppression- tasted the woim
wood sad gall of aUrsry—a self-made free
man—a aelf-taugbt mb.
Should aay bo diapMd to object to tbi
Sur oo the ground of its not being what tbej
desire—send oo your request, and demand o
Frederick Douglass in the same of a com
moo cause, of mates! oppresses—in 0*
name of hit outraged kinsmen—in the «smi
of discsidod manhood, outraged humanity
aod inoultod intelligence, io purses thatcoarei
which you conceive to bo the best adaptdd n
the end to bo attained. If yon be so imth
lied, do this—until then, yoo will hare failet
to do your duty, and a brother justice.
If the whole can be aostained or any par
of them, now in existence, then do. I hearti
ly join in roeommeodiog them to bo supported
uotil there shall bare been brought about i
different state of society; our people having
become more improved in all their various re
lat ions, and consequently be able to approciau
such enterprises, end the labors of those o
their brethren who are willing to snerifiet
their all, and wear out their lives in the aer
vice of their people and cause of their rac<
and humanity.
I say rally around the North Star, becauM
of the several papers now in existence, if ii
on the firmest basis, having the greatest pros
pects of suoese, and if it cannot be sustain
ed, the hope for the continuance of others ii
as the distant glimmering of an expended
meteor. We are not yet in a condition in
this country to support more than one effici
ent newspaper. This I have stated on a
former occasion, when connected with tha
North Star, and my present relation to the
paper makes the fact none the less truthful.
I have no other desire than to do that which
I conceive to be jost and right towards God
and man—to justify myself without wrong
ing my neighbor. I detest that dog-in-the
manger ambition, which, because I cannot eat
the hay myself, will suffer no other one to eat
it; land that Pharisaical philanthropy,
which because Israel cannot be gathered to
gether, would prevent Jacob from receiving
hit reward. No, thank God, I have a dif
ferent object and higher aim in view—the
elevation of our race—l care not by whom it
be effected so that it be properly done: Let it
be Henry Highland Garnet, Samuel R.
Ward, W. W. Brown, Henry Bibb, Charles
Lenox Reraoud, Frederick Douglass, or
whom.
I have no ambition whatever fox' popular
fame and personal distinction in the heaven
decreed pursuit ef philanthropy. It admits
ef no such rivalry. That which partakes of
the nature of Deity, can possess neither
hatred nor envy. It ia an assumption to
force one's services where they are not wan
ted, especially when they ere useless sad
he who d«>ee it is an intruder, if not a usur
per. This being my case, 1 have determined
to remain in the seclusion of obscurity, where
I have ever been, wishing God-epeed to our
public great men, in every good and lauda
ble undertaking in which they may embark.
You will herewith receive my humble ad
vice against the establishment of a paper in
Ohio, feeling fully assured that it will result
in serious losses to the proprietors; and
should such a project be carried out, though
I may possibly at some future day become a
resident of your great promising State, in a
professional capacity I roost respectfully de
cline the honor suggested to me, of becom
ing the Editor of your paper, or in any
wny responsibly interested in it.
M. R. DELANY.
Address
To the Anti-Slavery Ladies of Great Britain ana
Ireland, from two English friends.
Through the medium of the columns of
the North Stab, we earnestly desire to
solicit your aid and co-operation in the good
Anti-Slavery cause; and we would plead
with you more especially for assistance, on
behalf of the Western New York Anti-Sla
very Society.
One of the objects of this Society is [to
help to susiain the North Star newspaper,
which is, we believe, one of the best Anti-
Slavery instrumentalities now in operation.
The Annual Anti-Slavery Fair will he
held at Rochester towards the close of the
year; and a series of Anti-Slavery Fairs are
now being held in the towns and villages of
Western New York; consequently there is
an unusual demand for useful and fancy arti
cles. We earnestly entreat our British
friends to send us renewed help in the way
of contributions.
To our London friends, and to those living
n Birmingham, Coventry, Leicester, Leeds,
Sunderland and Bristol, we would sugge*
that they forward their contributions, by the
third week in October, to Miss Carpenter, of
Bristol, who has this year kindly consented
to forward the London box.
To the frieods in Carlisle and Manchester,
who sent boxes to Rochester last year, we
renew our appeal, hoping and believing that
they will continue to give us their aid and
we trust that the Frieods in Newcastle on
Tyne, Northampton, Colebrookdale, Edin
burgh, Belfast, and Cork, who then joined
them in this good work, will testify, oo the
present occasion, that they are M not weary it
well-doing.”
JULIA fa ELIZA GRIFFITHS.
Prxttt Good. —Somebody has perpetrate*
the following, which is pretty good in in
w i«. —“We hold these troths to be self-«v»-
deot, that all meo are endowed with ioaliena
bie rights—except poor men. AH men wfa
do not pay their boocet debts are groat scampi
—except those who cheat on a large scab
All men are horn fee* and equal—except no
groes. Ail meo are sinners—except them
who beloog to tbo cberefa. All men are si
towed to mink and act frody-except tbow
who workifcr a bring-”
Receipts
Fm the Noam STAB, from the dots sftmt aahmsm
ladgmmd S» Odt- 4, IMS.
Wafers NewYwhfa*®- Basis* dmftCM
fch**MM**
H feed, Pioakarfh, I*. Ml
Eaekad HM.Ky4iM.ri IM
C n (Mom, 0>««f» Ml
Hawhoa Ltttkkeld Ml
Th«M W«nwrtk H Ml
CMh fHerm Ml
P ndbivck F nWf IM
John Smth IJM
Henry Gray M
Jhki Jokaaaa, IfilHrifle, Mm IjM
J B Lott, Saadaaky City. Ok* IJI
Jaws A Barr, LadlowvHle 1,01
Harris 8 Roberts, RaaaaanUJr IjM
Aloato CW<is, Msasfield, Ohio IJ*
Jaws Waters, MißriUe, If J M>
Mrs. Eliza Joan, Philadelphia. Pa Ml
Sarak Euwnsoa r> IjM
Hoary Rase, Pitufaarfh, Pa
Cal. Sleeper, Mt. Morris Ml
W H Pekoa \M
J W Johasaa Ml
Bor. Ed«r. O’Flaherty. Daartla Ml
Henry Lott, Cknter. Oh io Ml
Jaae Patrick; Port Byroa 1,01
Wa. B. Btone, Garden, Maas Ml
David Spalding, Eliisloa. If E doa 5,00
Wa. Btoae, Lyoas, Mich. Ml
JokaKadw Ml
Notices.
Anti-Slavery LecUrn u 4 Fain.
Fkedkrick Douglass will visit and lecture,
and Fair* will be held, under the management
of the Ladies of the W. N. Y. A. S. Society,
at the following places in the course of next
mouth namely:
West Walworth, lecture, Toesd. Sep. 4th.
Marion, Wednesd. sth.
Palmyra, Thu red. 6th.
Victor, Friday -7th.
Fair, Saturday Blh.
E. Bloomfield, Lecture, Sunday 9th.
Fair, Monday 10th.
Oswego, Lecture, Thursday and Friday,
Sept. 13th and 14th.
Fulton Village, Lecture, Sunday and Mon*
day, 16tfi and 17th.
Mount Morris, Lecture, Thursday, 20« b.
Fair, Friday, 21st.
Caledonia, Lecture, Sunday, 23d.
Scottsville, Monday, 24th.
Fair, Tuesday, 25th.
Honeoye Falls, Lecture, Thursday, 27th.
Fair, Friday, 28th.
Lockport, Lecture, Thursday, Oct. sth.
Fair, Friday, 6th.
N.B. The Lecture at each of the above
named places will commence at 7 p.m. pre
cisely, unless some other hour is named in a
utuie notice.
An Appeal ta behalf of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slavery
in this land, and being deeply convinced that
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned members and
friends of the Western New York Anti-slavery
Society, again make their appeal to the
friends of the Slave in behalf of their annual
Bazaar, which will be held in Rochester in
December next.
While we have been cheered and gladdened
by the progress already made, and the good
alteady done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
quarters where we had least expected theta,
we still see the "harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few,” and instead of relaxing
out efforts, we are impressed with a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
of advancing this holy cause—We appeal the
more boldly to our friends because those for
whom we plead cannot plead for themselves.
While we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid,
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—'
personal —and political. Remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, we desire to
plead their cause as though they were on our
own limbs, and the knotted lash were applied
to our own backs.
While to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our arnual Fair, it is not the only one. A
great amount of good may be traced directly j
to such occasions. Many who are now ac-1
tive workers in behalf of this holy movement
became first interested in it through the in
strumentality of those annua) exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and Bkill. j
The present object of the Ri*cheater anti
slavery Bazaar is for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject of sla
very. Recognizing the North Star, (published
in this city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery ill-.
strumentality, we propose that the funds raised j
by the Sale of articles at the Bazaar (on
behalf of whieh we here appeal) shall be
maiuly appropriated to the support of that
important paper.
We gatefuily acknowledge the prompt as
sistance rendered to oar last Fair by our
friends and coadjutors in various parte of our
own State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with us in the good woik. That no tune may
be loot, we especially recommend to them tbe
immediate formation of sewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making strides
for the Rochester Bazaar. We would also
in this connection render our heartfelt thanks
to our British friends for the valnabte aid ex
tended by them to our last years Fair and
we would again warmly &olicu their generooa i
assistance. It is due to our trans-Atlantic
friends to sav that for much of tbe interest felt
in our last Bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded that their continued
co-operation will essentially promote tbe aoe
eess of our approaching December Bazaar,
and the advancement of the cause of the slave
in our land.
We hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend itself to out philanthropic friends on
both aides of the Atlantic, and that they will
cordially unite with ua in the effoit here pro
posed.
Be»t not— isaWkiosie*
Unnerves toe Was;
Sir**;l* tl <hd’» behtnt!
Ful mo life’s little spas
With God-like deeds—it h the test—
fat of the high born seal,
Aad tofty sub;
Jbe test ie history's scroll
Of every hooored bosk:
3one bar tbe Breve shall win the fool?
Siwoed on behalf of the Fair Committee,
bigned on POST.
Appeal ef the Philadelphia Asoaeiattea
The "Women’* Association of Philadd
obi.” appeal to a benevolent pohlie, and to
of the Slave everywhere, to aid
jtet of Which to seotaio the “North Smr.
To theee whe are fiseuhar with the pages d
this paper it i* ueoeceoary ta apeak ef to
*Ts those who have not seen u we
mavnv that we regard it as one of the very
rtwßSimw -1-
field. |_ k hseoese
•k. pAtiot ts eae a *®r oppiemaa moo,
urintnmlr qualified ‘“‘•f*** “iEIS
worth, to perform with credit the aide ran
uakflf ediuof a paper devoted in ear rieva
trnt that oar fhtodi
w« five
To oa» awn faapfc i B
ktpefaHj. Slttm, Mm tkal lm
lavam? Tha iioaknii—ib»y—ta—b
T# fa heavily, Wail down to the my Wat
dispirited, enahed b j the raht sf eppres
m. Ye hew the uuu dF the eeessyr
“They ate s» ifional aid ewiateed? The]
see jaafoas of oaa ether! Yee, bey eel
baa it ie ealy to pal daera aae aha is men
iaiallaataai thaa tW aaad n Piers by th
aoerosf laagaige ef coed act that these as
antioas ao oAaa tbiaaaia oar laces mie an
liekms deaden. Sustain P. Daeglasa,* be
cause bis talents sad correct pneciples de
anad year respect sad coaftdsace. Sastsii
boa heeaasa itssrifbt to dose, aad banen
of the sweet peace the peribnaaaeo of so wot
thy aa actios will assuredly brief it into you
The Pair will W bald oa Christmas week
Donations for it nay ho seat to
HARRIET SMITH, *l9 Lombard-street
RACHEL LLOYD, 303 Pioe-stteet,
AMY M. CASSEY, 113 Lombard-street
Or to aay aeabn of tho Association.
Elizabeth Acre, Ltdla Aim Bust ill
Mast Basbott, Hrrrr Bm,
Louisa Bristol, Holkm Johnsoh,
Hcstsb Bcstill, Eliza Jones,
Ckarlottb Mills.
SARAH M. DOUGLASS, Cor. Soc'y
No 54 MnllbeiTT st.
Philadelphia, 6th mo., 35. 1849.
TcaaißLT Scalded. —Fekw-citiaess of Chi
cago:—The deep sad distressing woods 1 Welj
received is being terribly scalded by the bars: inf ol
a distillery boiler, wen healed in ibe short mace ol
14 days by the fires application of Sloan’s calc heat
ed Ointment. Also, my child, who had been sorely
dhetad for severul mouths with Mmnummt, on
whoa I had exf aaded n large i«a of money for
aad radical advice, was restored to health
in less thaa three weeks by the sse of Sloan’s Oil
™*For injuries oa hones, I am confident Sloan’s
Ointment is for superior to any other remedies now
used.
In my opinion, every fomity should constantly
keen on hand this vahubie Ointment.
P MICHAEL DIVERSY.
Chicago, Jan. 4, 1849.
See Agents’ names at the bead of Sloan’s
Column. For further particulars and testimonials
get pamphlets of agents.
Cohschftios. rhere is perhaps no disease
with which our country is affected, which sweeps
off so many victims, as that fell destroyer of the
human race Consumption. Day after day, year
after year, that insatiate monster hurries to the por
tals of the cold aad silent tomb fresh added victims
to its conquest. No walk of life is sacred from its
blighting influence. No age is exempt from its
death-dealing shafts. The old, the middle-aged and
the young, all alike, are food for this common enemy
of mankind. The white-haired patriarch, whose
life of temperance has rendered his system impervi
ous to the attacks of other ills, and whose good
deeds prepared him for the enjoyment of life’s calm
evening, finds Consumption fastening its fangs i.pon
his vitals,and tearing him from a world ever bright
to minds which look complacently on days well
spent.
Is there no help for the afflicted!—no preventive
of the dangers which beset us in our changeable and
fickle clime! We think there is. And if the alle
gations of those who are at least entitled to veracity
may be believed, there is a preventive and a remedy.
W istar’s Balsam of Wild Cherry is offered to a suf
fering world as such. It needs not the “adventi
tious aid” of a long string of fictitious certificates to
give it notoriety. Iu true value and intrinsic ex
cellence, are sufficient to entitle it to the confidence
of the public, and to “waft on to fame” the name of
its Inventor, as a benefactor of his species.
None genuine unless signed I. BUTTS on the
wrapper.
Bissette of Martinique
Twenty-five yew ago there lived At
St. Pierre, in the island of Martinique,
a young man of color, named Bissette.
He was noted for bis intelligence and
worth, and exercised no small degree
of influence among the free blacks ot
I the island. About this time, a pampb
i let on tbe condition of the people of
color in tbe French Colonies was prin
ted in Paris, and copies of it were sent
to Martinique and Guadaloupe. On
the 12th of tbe 12th month, one Mer
ando, an agent of tbe Procureur du
Roi for Martinique, looking through
tbe jalousie window of Bissette, saw
copies of this pamphlet on his table.
He hastened to the Procureur, and on
his report, that functionary repaired to
tbe house of Bissette, whom he arrest
ed on the charge of conspiracy to over
throw the Colonial Government. The
discovery of two copies of the obnoxious
pamphlet in Bissette ’a house, and ol
several others in the bands ol free
colored men, was deemed ample ground
for charging the principal and leading
men of color with the design of rising
against the whiles. Some two hund
red were arrested, and banished from
the island. Some were sent to the
burning deserts ot Senegal, while
others were allowed to go to i ranee.
Bissette was sentenced to the punish
ment of branding and hard labor for
life. The sentence was commuted to
banishment for life by the tribunal of
Port Royal. The Procureur entered
an appeal from this judgment, as did
also Bissette and his lellow prisoners.
The King had in the mean time ap
pointed a new procureur, who was
already on his passage out, when the
acting Procureur, contrary to rule and
justice, insisted upon pressing the ap
peal. The trial was a burlesque on
judicial proceedure. The accused were
neither allowed to produce evidence in
their defence, nor to avail themselves
of the aid oflegal counsellors and de
fenders. The court sat with closed
doors. Bissette was declared guilty ot
distributing seditious pamphlets, and
the original sentence was reaffirmed.
The Governor made strenuous efforts
j for a delay in the execution of the sen
tence, but they proved unavailing a
gainst the prejudices and fears of the
white planters. The horrible punish-
ment of branding with a hot iron was
inflicted upon Bissette and his friends
Volay and Fabien. They were then
sent to Guadaloupe, without being per
i milted to see their wives and children,
lrom whom they had been separated j
i tor three years. The energetic spirit
i of Bissette devised the means of bring- j
ing their case before the Court of Cas- i
sation at Paris. Here the colonial de-!
cision was reversed, and they were set j
at liberty.
Bissette, who, like Oge of St. Do
mingo, had commenced his public life
as the advocate only of the rights of
free men of color, had learned during j
three years of suffering that his own
class could not be safe from the sus
picions, prejudices, and insults of the
whiles, so long as the latter continued
to hold his brethren by birth and com-i
plexion as slaves. He felt that the:
1 men of color, bond and free, were uni
ted in a common destiny. Acting upon;
-this conviction, he began the work of
agitation in the French capital in be-
I half of emancipation in the Colonies.
He established a periodical devoted to
I the subject, wherein he exposed the
atrocities of the slave system, and com
bated with force and ingenuity the
falsehood and sophistry of its advo
cates. He corresponded with the friends
of his oppressed race in England and
the United States, and was one of the j
founders of the French Abolition Soci- 1
I ety, of which the late Duke de Broglie 1
i was the first President, and which in
cluded among its members and patrons
such men as Isambert, Passy, La
Rochefoucauld, Creinieux, and Lamar-'
j tine.
The two latter were members of the
Provisional Government established by
l the Revolution which dethroned Louis
Philippe. One of the first acts of that
i Government was the virtual abolition ol
slavery. In the 10th month following,
Bissette received the notice of his elec
tion by the people of Martinique aad
Gaudaioupe as one of their representa
tives to the National Assembly, but,
owing to some irregularity in the elec
tion, and certain disqualifications under
which he labored, he gave in his resig-'
natioH, with the intention of again!
placing himself fairly before the people
for re-election. With this view he is,
now on a visit to his native island —the
scene of his long imprisonment and ol
his cruel and ignominious punishment,
On the 21st of the 6th month, the ship
Zampa was signalled off* Precheur
point, near St. Pierre. It was known
that Bissette was on board, and the
population, irrespective of color and
rank, came out to receive him.—Shouts,
songs, and music, were heard in all the
streets. The exile of twenty-five years
I landed amidst universal acclamations;
i a carriage was brought to the landiug
place, into which be was lifted, and
drawn by the populace to the doors ol
the splendid mansion which had been
richly furnished for his reception. The,
Martinique Courier of the 31st says:
“M. Bissette has been, during the!
few days he has passed in St. Pierre,
the object almost of idolatry. Noth-J
ing can give au idea of the enthusiasm 1
inspired by his presence wherever he
has shown himself—along the streets,
as he proceeds upon business, or os be
moves to make visits—or at his resi
dence, where a familiar reception is
given to every call. This popularity
seems to increase every day. Nume-
I rous deputations have complimented M.
Bissette, and many addresses have
been presented to him.*’
Among these, we notice one address-
ed to him by a distinguished merchant
j erre n w h»ch allusion wash
made to his early sufferings in tbe;j
cause of freedom, and his faithful labors j
in the same cause during his long exile
e subjoin bis modest and well-ex-
pressed answer; as, in some son an
electioneering speech of a black candi- i j
date for tbe National Assembly of
France, it is not without interest; and
we think the most prejudiced will admit j
that it compares favorably with the i
■tump oratory of Geoeral Cullum, an
unmistakable Anglo-Saxon tlaWris
for Congress, at the late election in
Tenaesaea, a specimen of which has ap
peared in our columns:
“CrrixxNs! After an absence of
twenty-fire years, it ia impossible to be
more happy than 1 am, on finding my
self in the ntidnt of compatriots whom I
love, and who are for so many reasons
dear to me.
“I am not tha leas moved by J our
fraternal welcome. Accept the te*i
mony of my warmest thanks and grati
tude.
“Certainly, I had thought I could
anticipate the eagerness which would
have brought before me those friends
with whom I have been for many
long year in communion of ideas and
sentiments; but this slmosl unanimous
concurrence of the inhabitants of your
city surpasses my utmost expectation;
and, if I am oveijoyed at this, and feel
honored, I do not deceive myself, nei
ther do I labor under an illusion as to
the value of this manifestation of your
sympathies. 1 too well know what 1
am worth, not to understand that it is
not my personal merit which you re
compense at this moment by this kind
of ovation; you come to give your ad
hesion here to those words of peace,
union, concord, and conciliation, which
proceeded from my mouth, and which
preceded me to this Colony aa the ex
pression of a common sentiment; you
come to bear testimony that I was but
the organ, the faithful interpreter of
your wishes, and that we ardently de
sire the union of the generous spirits of
all parties, as the sole pledge of the
prosperity of our dear Martinique.
“It is thus, citizens and countrymen,
that I account to myself for the flatter
ing reception of which I am the object.
Let us, therefore, consent to a mutual
oblivion of the past, and cast away un
happy divisions, old prejudices of a by
gone day, and recriminations which
can never promote the welfare of par
ties, still less the happiness of the coun
try, which should reign over and tran
quilize all passions.
“As to those sufferings to which you
have made allusions, they were never
very painful to me: for, even at the
depth of my dungeon, they long since
formed for me an habituated chain, of
which I never felt the weight; they
were the inevitable consequence of our
social regeneration.
“Vive la Republique!”
No doubt whatever is expressed of
his triumphant re-election to the Na
tional Assembly. Of his ability and in
tegrity in the discharge of the duty
thereby imposed on him, his constitu
ents have ample guaranty in his past
life and character.
A NIGHT UNDER AN AVALANCHE.
There was, in the interior, native of
Aosta, who meant to leave us at Mar
tigny, for the purpose of traversing the
Great St. Bernard, at the exaggerated
dangers of which pass he laughed very
heartily. Accidents, he admitted, did
sometimes overtake travellers in that
part of the Alps, but, generally, he
said, the pass of the St. Bernard was
open and safe throughout the year, ex
cept during the continuance of snow
storms. He had himself, a few years
previously, in another pass, the name
of which I forget, been overtaken by
one of these, in company with an Eng
lish family returning froiq Italy, and
been witness of the way in which the
element sometimes perforins th 4 office
of sexton. They set out early tin the
morning, and arrived a little before
nightfall at a part of the pass .which,
owing to the driving of the winds, is
easily choked up. The snow hhd be
gun to fall about an hour and a half
previously, and was now pouring down
the ravine before the blast, blinding
both horses and postilions, and bringing
along with it premature night. They
had hoped to reach the summit before
darkness set in; but the horses furnish
ed them were weak, and the snow for
the last hour, at least, had greatly re
tarded their progress. How he came
to be in the Englishman's carriage, he
did not explain. I fancy our country
man had invited him out of sheer polite
ness. The party consisted of five in all
—the husband and wife, the Italian,
the nurse, and the little baby. How it
comes to pass I know not, but it gene
rally happens that the English, when
overtaken by danger, display qualities
which astonish fereigners. On the oc
casion in question, all the solicitude of
the husband seemed to be concentrated
in the wife, while all hers was in the
baby. Self seemed equally absent in
the mindBofboth. The nurse, for her
part, displayed the utmost stoicism, ex
cept that, as the cold increased, and
the snow drifts beat more and more
furiously against I he carriage windows,
she pressed the child more closely to
the breast, and protected it from the in
fluence of the air with a greater allow
ance of shawls. Our friend from Aos
ta, who understood thoroughly the per
ils of the position, went on talking with
the husband, who, while his eyes were
fixed upon his wife and child, appeared
calm and collected, though, from cer
tain thundering noises above, it appear
ed probable that the avalanches were in
motion. At every ten yards, the car
riage was stopped by the accumulated
snow. “Jane,” said the husband at
length to his wife, “tie up your throat
carefully; we may have to walk pres
ently: and you, nurse, make the baby
comfortable, and give him to me.” The
nurse obeyed, and the mother, looking
anxiously at her child, inquired, with
suppressed earnestness, “William, is
there any danger?” “Yes, a little,
love, just enough to impart an air of
romance to our adventure, “Hark, f f
exclaimed the wife, “what’s that?”
“My God,” cried the nurse, “the
mountain has fallen on us.” Just at
that instant a loud shout was heard
from the men outside, followed by a
suppressed struggle and a groan, and
hen the most complete silence. All
notion was at tha same time arrested
o the carriage, and on applying the
amp to the carriage window it wae per
:eived that they were embedded in thick
mow. “What is u> ha dona?” ax
:laimed the Englishman, addraamag
tun self to our friend from Aortt “Can
'°ur experience suggest any means of
ixtricatiiig ourselves from this position
f force oar wmy oat, da jroa UUk it
wwblt CwU nwk «nm
i shell«*>*' “No, ”aheweredbe."tbelu
i impoeeible. All we can do is to rfa}
i where we ere; they will dig u* out in
the morning. “And the drivers,” ob-
Kited the Englishman, a sudden
f thought fleshing across his mind, “whel
i is tobecocse of them; they will die ol
cold?-' “They ere deed already
anawered the Aostan, “the first stroke
i of the avalanche extinguished life in
them; whet you heard was their death
groan.** “Impossible?” cried our coun
tryman, “I must force my way out,
and endeavour to drag them hither.*
The confined space into which the}
bad to breathe would have rendered il
necessary to let down the windows,
at the risk of admitting a quantity oil
snow; but all egress was impractica
ble. They were entombed, as it were,
in the avalanche, which, fortunate!}
for them, was soft and spongy, permitt
ing air to pass through its pores; yet
the heat soon became almost insuffera
ble, and once during the night the lad}
fainted. Travelling carriages in the
Alps are always well supplied with pro
visions and restoratives, wine, brandy.
i &.C., and as our countryman never once
lost his presence of mind, everything
I practicable was done for wife, anc
nurse, and child. What their laaguagt
and feelings were may possibly be im
i agined. Ail our friend from Aostc
i could say was, that it was very terrible,
which be uttered in a tone more signifi
i cant thao his words. Well, morning
t came at last, as they knew by consult
f inr their watches; but it brought nc
light with it, and for some time nc
f sound. At length a confused rumbling
i was heard through the snow, whicl
died away, and came again by fits, til
at length it became evident that it jvai
the voices of men. After a protractec
interval, a gleam of daylight entyrec
the carriage, the snow was cleared par
tially away, and the welcome face of i
rustic was beheld peering down upor
them. Their deiiverauce was no*
speedy, and they were conveyed ha)
dead to a chalet, together with the bod
ies of the driver and postilions. “Surf
accidents,” said our friend, “are rare.*
i It is to be hoped so,” exclaimed Mad
ameCarli; “and what became of the
i English lady?” “Oh, the whole party
escaped without injury, and next year I
f saw them pass again into Italy, so little
r had they been daunted by the peril*
they had escaped.”— Tail's Mag.
THE FOOT PRINTS OF WAR.
f
It was in the cool of the following
morning,as full of satisfaction at the ap
proaching end of our journey I was
walking in advance ot the camels, talk
t ing with Komeh, when I was strurf
with the appearance ot an objec’ by th«
side of the path, which gave me an un
definable sensation of heart sickness;
and, yet at the moment I could not de-
P cide on what it was. It appeared ai
first rather like the impress of a humar
body in the sand, than an actual corpse;
but on a narrower scrutiny, from which,
r though shuddering,l could not withholc
I myself, it proved to be the remains 01
some one who had there perished. The
unhappy wretch had either sunk ex
hausted as he lay, or perhaps was de
posited in his position by another: the
former, at the time struck us as more
probable. Only the upper part of the
k figure remained, the flesh was long
since consumed, and some of the bones
were missing, but the clothing of the
I chest and arms still adhered to the
skeleton, part bearing marks of being
j torn by birds or beasts of prey, in the
process of getiug at the flesh it shroud
ed; the sand had filled every cavity
where once the heart beat out its last
j pangs, and had matted between and
half concealed the bones, so that in a
p short time these hideous vestiges would
be entirely obliterated. Komeh took
r the pipe from his mouth, and we en
deavored to make out from the remains
ing scraps of dress the condition of the
unfortunate man. So vague were they
that I was quite at loss; but Komeh,
suddenly stooping to the chest, discov
ered some traces of the embroidered
costume of the Egyptian soldiery, and
pronounced, and I believe correctly,
the unfortunate victim to be one ofthat
wreck of Ibraham Pasha's army,which
I after the storming of the Acre by the
English.fled towards Egypt in different
routes through the desert. The recol
leciion ofthat terrible retreat, when
t thousands perished from thirst, famine,
and fatigue, as yet fresh in the minds
of the Bedouins; the fall of Acre re
r sounded through their deserts, and im
pressed an awe and dread ofthe power
of the English, which will be long ere
it pass away. Here, then, lay the
mouldering remains of some poor Fel
lah from the bank of the Nile, torn
from his native fields, and sent in
chains to the army cf the Egyptian ty>
tyrant, to fight battles in which they
had no concern, and close a life of sla
very in a death of horror, and that to
fulfil the shifting policy of another
and a distant nation. The spectacle of
this poor wretch was little flattering to
one’s national vanity; to see one of
thousands we had been instrumental in
thus cutting of counts of our successes
in the jornals.— Bartlett's forty days in
Negro Suffrage.—Foroursrff we
always have believed, since we have
taken any part or interest in politics,
that suffrage should be univeral without
distinction of color. There is no rea
son why the negro should be denied
the privilege ot expressing his appro
val or disapproval, .through the ballot-
box, of public men and measures.—He
has just as good a right to represent l
his person or property through the bal
lot box as Mr. Webb or any other man,
however white his skin. The man of
color has just as good a right to be a
lawyer, if qualified, as Mr. Webb; he
has jiut as good a right to sit on juries
or on the bench as Mr. Webb, provi
ded always he be qualified. The po
sition of Free Softer* we true! is well
understood, and we think Mr. Webb or
•ny other men, will make but little in
thes daring Free Softer*, a* we believe
*ke people too just, too intelligent and
patriotic to have their prejudices arous
ed against us because a simple act ot
d«l»y«d. proposed.
right, end wrongs no one. The
mq of color is born with the same
right ns the white man. God knows
no difference, neither should constitu
tions or governments