sir, he who denies to children the
ricquisitioii nt works dev-j i
disii miracles. ii a man destroys niyjs
power of hearing, it precisely the f
same to .me as though, leaving my: i
faculty of hearing untouched, he hidjii
annihilated all the .melodies and har- i
monies of the universe. if a man (i
obliterates my power of vision, it is j a
pro. isel. the same to me as th >ugh hej c
had biot'ed ou the light of the sun. is
and dun? a pall of darkness over all
the beauties of the earth, and the 1
g|„r es «*f the firmament. so if a us- t
urper of human rights takes away from
a child the faculties of knowledge, or
the means and opportunties to know, it t
is precisely the same to that child as t
though alf the beauties and the won-
dets, all the magnificence and the i
glory of the universe itself had been
destroyed. to one who is permitted i
to know nothing of the charms and j
sublimities of science, all science is i
nonexi-tenl. to one who is permitted
to know nothing ol the historical past,
ali the past generations of men are a
non-entity. to one whose iniud is not,
made capacious of the future, and
opened to receive it, all the great in
terests of futurity have less of reality]
than a dream. i say, therefore, in
strict, literal, philosophical truth, that
whoever denies knowledge to children
works devilish miracles. just so lari
as he disables and incapacitates them!
from knowing, ije annihilates the ob
ject? of knowledge; he obliterates
historv; he destroys the countless ma
irnals in the natural world that might,
through the medium ol the useful arts,
be converted into human comforts and
blessings; he suspends the sublime
order and progression of nature, and
hints out those wonderful relations of
cause and that belong to her un
changeable. laws. nay, there is a
,iensc m which such an impious des
troyer of knowledge may be said to
annihilate: the (ventor himself, for he
docs annihilate the capacity of forming
a conception of that creator, and thus
prevent* a soul that was created in tlie*
image of *od from ever teceiving the j
image it was created to reflect. such;
a d stroyer of knowledge dims the!
highest moral splendor of the universe, j
(i .dismorelo me than a grand and
-olitary being, though refulgent with
infinite perfections. contemplated a>
enthroned in tin: midst of his works,
his spiritual offspring in all the world*
nc has formed become a multiplying
glass, retl -cling hack the original m
all the profusi *n and countlcssuess o.
infinity. but when the wickedness o
man cuts «,ir entire generation* and
wh de races from the capacity ot re
flecting back thi- radiant image of th*
creator, then all tiiat part ol the uni
verse where thtry dwell becomes blifek
a-id revolting, and all that portion ol
the mirror of souls which was des
igned to reproduce and rekindle tin
glories of the eternal, absorbs and
qti *nches the rays which it should
hive caughi an 1 flamed with, anew
and multiplied and returned. and std
further, sir, 1 affirm, in words as tru*
and literal as any that belong to ge
onetry, that the man whi withhold
k mwledge from a child not only work
diabolical miracles f »r the destructioi
of good, hut lor the creation of evi
a 1 so. he who shuts out truth, by th
an n act opens the door to all the er
rnr that supplies iu place, ignoranc*
breed* monsters to fill up all the va
the north star.
cuitics of the soul that are unoceupiec
iv the verities of knowledge. he wm
dethrones the i lea of law, bids chaw
welcome in i f •‘lead. superstition i
nbe mathematical complement of re
ligious truth; and just ao much leva a-
i (he life of a human being is reclaim* c
to good, just so much more is it de
livered over to evil. the man or th«
institution, therefore, that withhold.-
knowledge fr *in a child, or from a ;aci
if children, exercises the awful powe:
»f changing the world in which they
are to live, ju»t as much as though lit
should annihilate all that ia moat lovely
and grand in this planet of ours, or
transport the victim of his cru-hv
»jrne dark and frigid 2one of the uni
j verse, where tf"? veet* of knowledge
arc unknown, and the terrors of igno-
i lance hold undisputed and remorseless
reign. sir, the laws recorded in the
statute books of the free states, provid
ing the means of education, and wooing
the children to blessedness
of true knowledge, are worthy to he
inscribed as emblems and hieroglyphics
upon the golden gales of heaven; hut
those laws which deform the statute
books of the slave states of this union,
making it a penal offence to educate
human beings, and dooming immortal
soils to petpetual ignorance, would
make the most appropriate adornment'
wherewith to embellish with inscription
and bas-relief the pillars of the coun
cil-hall of pandemonium.
.sir, if there is anything for which 1
would go back to childhood, and live
this weary life over again, it is for the
burning, exalting, transporting thrill
and ecslacy with which the young facul
ties hold liieir arliest communion with
knowledge. when the panting and
thirsting soul iir»t drinks the delicious
water of truth; when the moral and
intellectual tastes and desires first seize
the fragrant fruits that flourish in the
garden of knowledge; then does the
child catch a glimpse and foretaste of
heaven. he regales himself upon the
nectar and ambrosia of the gods. late
in life, this zest is rarely if ever felt sni
keenly as at the beginning. such
ought not to be'the fact; but our bodies
are so systematically abused by trans
gressions of the laws of health and
life, that the sympathizing soul loses
the keenness of its early relish. even
j then, however, age has its compensa
tions. the old may experience the
delights of learning, anew, and in the j
reflex pleasure of seeing children
learn. but these lofty and enduring i
satisfactions, —ufis pleasure, it is no;
extravagance to say, this bliss ofj
knowledge, both for parent and child.,
is withheld, ecuelly,
held from the slave. we know all j
this; we see its imaruting consequences; i"
and we are c impelled to see them, be
cause the government will uphold
slavery here.
such, sir, is the spectacle which is
presented to all northern inen, when
ever for duty, for business, or fi»r;
pleasure, they visit this metropolis.;
wherever we go, wherever we are,;
the odious, abhorred concomitants ofj
this institution are forced upon our ob-j
nervation, and become a perpetual
bitterness in the cup of life. the!
whole system, with all its adjuncts, is
irreconcilably repugnant to our ideas of
justice. we believe it to lie a denial
of the rights of man; we believe it to
he contrary to the law of god. whe
ther these feelings wear away by the
lapse of time, and the indurating pow
er of custom, i know- not; hut, for one,
i hope never to become hardened and
callous to the sight; for it is a
j where 1 could experience no initigati >n
of mv pains, without a corresponding
debasement of my nature.
now, in all sincerity, and in all kind
ness, 1 ask our southern brethren,
i j what there is to them so valuable and
desirable in retaining slavery here, as
to be a compensation for all the pain
and evil which i r s existence inflicts
upon the north? surely its abandon
men! here would be a small thing to
i them, while its continuance is a great
thing to us. it is a great thing to us,
i because we are hhd responsible f**r it
i by the whole civilized world. this
district is the common possession ol
the nation. c mgress has power of
exclusive legislation over it. congress,
therefore, is responsible for its institu
tions as a man is responsible for the
condition of his hojse, and the customs
of his family. the general g ivern
merit is not responsible for the local
institutions of massachusetts or oi
mississippi. each of them has su
preme control over its own domestic
concerns. they may honorably dis-
i charge their debts or repudiate them;
they may build up institutions of chari
tv, of learning, and of religion; or
they may suffer inhumanity and vio
lence, ignorance and paganism, to
k prevail; and we, here, cannot help it,
n and therefore are not responsible for
it. but it is wholly otherwise with
regard to the institution? that prevail in
d this district; their honor, or their in*
faiuy, attaches to us. we are judged
by them the world round we of ihe
i- northern states feel it ai home; we are
k made to feel it still more deeply
il abroad. throughout every nation ir
t- europe, it is the common language anc
the common sentiment, that an institu
d tion which exists in *me half of the state;
d of this union is in flagrant c mtias
and contradiction to the t.ieorv of oui
i government. when we are rcininde<
of this.—whether in a kindly and ex
oostulafory manner by our friends, oi
i in an offensive and taunting one bv oui
enemies, we of the n »rth can say, a
least, that we are njt responsible foi
i t. we can explain why we are n<
more amenable for the local lawn o
\rkan*tas or missouri, than we are f«»i
1 the catholic religion in mexico, or f*»i
the revolutions in the south america!
right is of no sex—truth is of no color—goo is the father of vs all, and all we are brethren.
republic. this w oar answer. bui
they mi l retort upon us, and say, there
is one spot for which yon are responsi
ble,—the district of colutnhia. vou
could abolish slavery there if you
would; you do not; and therefore the
•*ia of as cootiuuance is yours, as much
so as if it existed in new york or
massachusetts. now, i ask southern
gentlemen how it is consistent with
j magnanimity and with a frater
l rial feeling towards the north, for them
to force the ndium'of this inconsistent
!cy upon u<? surely t.iey gain no
credit, no character by it; we lose
both credit and character. the ex
isfence of here is iyi benefit to
them; it is of i akableicji«ry to us,
jtftey scaid lose nothing oy *urrender
mg it; we suffer everything by its con-
i tinuahee. a change w mld work them
no injury; it would be invaluable to
us. 1 ask them on principles of common
fairness and g rod neighborhood, that
they should courteously and voluntarily
yield us this point, which would allay
si much bitterness and heart-burning
at the north, and which, according to
their views of the matter, would fill
the south with the sweet savor of a
generous deed.
i know, sir, that some southern gen
tlemen profess to see a principle in
such a course that debars them from
adopting it. they say that if slavery!
in this di-tiict should be surrendeied,
it would only be giving the adversary j
a vantage ground, on which he could
plant himself to attack slavery in the
states. i dissent from this view entire
ly. has not the gentleman from ohio,
(mr. giddings,) who is supposed to!
represent the extreme anti-slavery j
views which exist in this house, —has
he not declared here, a hundred times
over, that he disclaims all rights, that;
he renounces all legal authority and
pretext, under the constitution, to lay
the hands of this government, for the!
purpose of freeing him, on a single j
slave in the slave states: but clearly j
the principle is different in regard to j
slaves in this district, where we pos-!
scss the power of‘exclusive legislation.’!
but if gentlemen at the south see a i
principle which debars them from sur-j
rendering slavery in this district, we'
at the north see a principle which:
prompts us, and will prompt us, until
the work is accomplished, to renewed:
exertions. on the same ground t.-n
which slavery in this district has been
defended for the last fifty years, it can
bo defended for the next fifty, or the
next five hundred years; it can be de
fended forever. this idea of perpetual
slavery in the very household of a*re
nublic of freemen, v nnt ta tol
erated, and cannot be 'tolerated. “bpl
4 will not dwell on this topi* further.
i close tiiis branch of my argument
with a propositon which seems to me
hut fair and equitable. the south has!
held this metropolis as a slave camtal,
f»r fifty years. let it now be held as
a free capital for fifty years; and if, at
the end of this period, adequate reasons
can be shown, before any nation, j
civilized or uncivilized, upon the face!
ol tho earth, for restoring it to slavery!
i for one should have no fears j
of entering into an engagement upon
such a condition, that it should again:
become *a land of egypt and a house
of bondage.’
the remainder of the speech is an argu
ment on the uncoiisiiuiiimiality of slavery.!
thi« subject mr. m inn, discuss a with much
nbilitv in the five following propositions.
1. slavery has no legal existence, en-
less by force of positive law.
2. that a man’s legal condition may lie
••hanged by a change in this government over
hen, while he remains in the same place,
just as eff>lualiv as it can be changed by ins
removal to another place, and putting htmsell
under another government.
3. test the jurisdiction under which the
inhabitants of what is now the distiict ol
columbia lived, prior to the cession of the
i district of maryland to the united stales,
i was utterly and totally changed, at the mo
ment of the cession.—at the moment when,
according to the provisions of the conslitu*
i tion, they ceased to be citizens of the state of
maryland, amj^becamecitizens of tire district
of columbia.
4. ns hat is the legal force and effect upon
the snbjetc of slavery, of the act of congress
of 1801, before cited ‘'that the laws ol the
stale ol maryland, as they now exist, shall
.be continue.! in force in that part of said
district which was eeeded by that state to
the united states"'
j 5. as congress can do nothing excepting
what it is empowered to do by liie constitu
tion, and as the constitution does not etn
i power it to establish slavery here, [in the
distiicij it cannot establish slavery here, itor
continue it.
i
i a portion of his argument on this point
follows;
where is there any express power
given to congress by the constitution
to establish slavery? where is the
article, section, or clause? 1 demand
to have the title shown. thousands o(
human beings are not to be robbed o|
all their clearest rights; and they and
their children, forever, by strained
i constructions, or apocryphal authority,
1 doomed to bondage. will those who
sav that congress cannot establish a
banking institution by construction, nor
aid internal improvements, nor enact a
i tariff—wdl they say they cun make a
mart a slave, and all his posterity slaves,
by obstruction?
n<*r can any power to establish sla
i j very be deduced from the 18th clause
of the blh section of the hst article ot
j the constitution, which gives congress
1 i power **lo make all which shall be
necessary and proper f*r carrying into
execution’* the powers that are granted.
what power is granted to congress,
f>r the exercise of which, the estabiish
•l ment of slavery to this district is a
nqces«fry means or pehimmary? c«m
-r g*ess has power to lay,and collect tax
et; to borrow money; to regulate co:n
*j mere*; to establish uniform rules of
i| naturalization; to c <rtn money; to pun-
rochester. n. y., friday, may 25, 1849.
i4i counterfeiters, jo establish post
j offices and post roads: to promote the
progress of science and the aits; to
e-tabli*h court-*; to define and punish
piracies on the h*gh seas; to declare
war, to raise and support armies; to
provide and maintain a navy; to organ
j ize and maintain a militia; and so forth,
and so forth but to what one of all
these powers, is the power to establish,
slavery in the district of columbia a
necessary incident? if slavery in the
district of columbia were to cease to
day, could not the government continue*
1 1« exercise every function which it ha» i
heretofore exeycised. if so, then the 1
j existence of slavery |p this district isj
not ‘necessary to tweexrrciwflf am j
jof the expressly granted powers. i,
i cal) upon any gentleman to name any
one power of this government which
cannot be exercised, which must ne
cessarily cease, if slavery should cease
to be. in this district of columbia? “i
must pause for a reply.”
well, then, if a power to establish
i slavery in this district is not among
the granted powers, and if it is nor
necessary for the exercise of any of
the granted powers, then it its nowhere,
—it does not exist at all. no power
of congress, then, exists, either for
the creation or for the continuance of
slavery in this district: and all '.he
legislation of congress upon this sub
ject is beyond or against the constitu
tion.
let me illustrate this in another
way. suppose thtre had hei n a re
ligious establishment in maryland at
thetiirifcof the cesssion; suppose, under
the auspices of lord baltimore, the
catholic religion had been established
as the religion of the state; and that,
in order to punish heresy and secure
conformity to the religion of the state,
an inquisition had been founded, and
that the seat of* that inquisition had
been within the limits of the district ot
columbia, at the time of the cession:
could congress, in the absence of all
express or implied authority on the
subject of establishing a state religion,
have upheld the catholic religion here,
and appointed the officers of the in
quisition to administer it? the idea is
abhorrent to the whole spirit of the
constitution. but congress had as
much power to establish a national
religion here, in the absence of ail ex
press or implied authority to do so, as
to establish slavery here.
congress, then, does not and can
not legalize slavery in this district. it
found slavery in existence in the states;
and it does not abolish it, or interfere
with it, becausd 4 has no' pbwer of
j t*ctir*tve -tegtstjtiftir* itrthem. bui
gongresp has as much fight to go into
any. state ajid abolish slavery thtfre, as
any stale, even virginia or maryland,
has to come into this district- with its
laws and establish slavery here. i sup
pose that no jurist will contend that
congress could have passed the act of
1793, for the recapture of fugitive
slaves, had it not been for the third
clause in the second section of the
fourth article of the constitution, which
provides for the redelivery of a fugi
tive slave, on the claim of his master.
bv this article in the constitution, the
case of fugitive slaves only is provided
for. if a master voluntarily carries
his slave into a free state, and the
slave departs from his possession, he
cannot reclaim him. why not? why
cannot congress pass a law 1 that if a
man takes a dozen slaves to boston,
and they there see fit to strike for
wages, and to leave his possession be
cause their terms are not complied
with, —why is it, i ask, that congress
cannot pass a law' authorizing their
seizure and delivery into the master’s
hands? tbo reason is, that *the con
stitution ha 3 conferred upon congress
no such express power, nor is any such
power implied as being necessary to
the exercise of any power that is ex
pressed. and if congress cannot so
much as restore a slave to a master.
1 who has voluntarily carried him into
j a free state, how can it continue slave
ry in this district, alter maryland has
‘ceded it to this government, whose
fundamental, organic law gives it no
power to create or continue slavery
here?
suppose maryland had ceded her
share of the district to massachusetts,
would not every .slave in it have been
instantaneously free by the constitu
tion of massachusetts? they would
have been transferred to a tree juris
diction, —just as much as an individual
owner of a slave passes under a tree
jurisdiction, when he voluntarily takes
his slave to the north. the legal ex
istence of slavery was annulled in this
district, when congress exercised its
“exclusive” power over it, just as
much as the debtor’s right to be dis
charged under the maryland bank
rupt law was annulled.
but igo further than this; and i say
that the constitution not only does not
empower congress to establish or con
tinue slavery in this district, but again
and again, by the strongest implies*
l tions possib'e, it prohibits the exercise
of such a.power. _
1 frow the om*km chmm.
fugitive* from slavery.
we had the pleasure, a few eveo
ings since, of listening to the interest
r imr recital of the escape of two georgia
slaves, william and mary crmiia, from
rith« prwo. tbej
i were mao and wir ow “*d by dif
1 ferent wastervlhe/ knew n »l hiw soon
tire hour oftbjneparaiioo might come.
j they saw in the workings of that abom
i inabie system which had degraded them
to the level of brute*, though possessed
of intelligence equal, if not superior,
in those wh claimed the ownership ol
r their bod es, by what a frail and oncer
-1 tain teaura they held that dearest of all
r relationship*, that of husband and wife;
and the agony of the thought that cu
pidit| or luat might divide them froti.
each other at a moment's notice, gar*
them the resolution to peril all, in on*
bold endeavor to secure the precious
boon of freedom it was an enterprise
fraught with dangers and difficulties,
front its commencement to its close. but
that intuitive perception of the blessings
of a condition of freedom, which no
tyranny or degradation can eradicate
from the human soul, gave them the
courage of heart and keenness of wi»
that enabled them to overcome all, and
plant their feet upon the soil of massa
chusetts. it was a cold, wet. tempesto
•his night on which they stood there in
the city hall of worcester, such a
night as people love not to go abroad
in; but yet, that spacious room was
filled; filled, too, with a sympathizing
audience, who manifested in their looks,
and frequent bursts of rapturous a|»-
plause, how deeply they were moved
bv the simple tale of that unlearned
slave; how heartily they rejoiced in the
success of his endeavors, and how
gladly they welcomed him and the part
ner of his lot to such freedom as the
public sentiment of massachusetts, not
its laws, can secure to them.
should we say that we did not parti
cipate in the general joy that pervaded
that audience, we should assert what
was untrue; but there were sentiments
and feelings connected with the hour,
that filled our mind with saddening
thoughts, and gave a deeper serious
ness to our reflections. while we rc
j joiced over these two, who had so far
escaped, we could not forget the three
millions more like then), still clanking
their chains and wasting their lives un
der the tyranny of the torturing lash of
the plantation overseer. we thought
of the haracoons of our southern cities,
towards which, eveu then, though it
was the sabbath, the worn and jaded
slave coffles were wending their toil
some way from the northernmost slave
states, to supply the spr ng demand'’
•if the cotton planters of carolina and
georgia, and the sugar growers of;
louisiana and texas. in our mind’s]
eye, we beheld the revolting and dia
bolical scenes of the auction stand,
where god’s image is profanely exposed
with the cattle of the field, the fowls ol
the air and the fish of the sea, and
knocked off to the highest bidder. we
saw h«»w t beneath the very droppings
of christ’s sanctuaries, men’s eye*
were blinded by the glittering sheen of
the almighty dollar, so that they might j
these su flying* ones for whom■
wdi*di hi— ihsu wrw we»g it.!
so that tjfey could not hear their cries
for succor; how their tongues* wertr
paralized by a slavish fear, so that ffiey
dared not even lift up their voices in
their behalf, in prayer to god, who
hath said in his law, ,c ßob not the
poor because he is poor, neither op
press the afflicted in thy gate: for the
lord will plead their cause, and spoil
the soul that spoileth them.”
from the louisville examiner
the south.
turn to your map, reader, and look j
over the south, and see what a country!
it is—how large, how full of resources,
how capable by sea and land of reach* j
ing any point of greatness, and then
ask what she was, what she is and what j
she will be?
what she was!
in earlier times, the south was the j
favored land. immigration poured into.
it. the intelligent and noble of eu-j
rope heard chiefly of it, and into its bo
som they poured their wealth, and
came to repose. the despised only
sought the wild new england shore.
it was the home of the ‘bigot;’ of those
who were called in scorn, puritans; ot
literally the despised of the earth. now
shut the book*of history, and tell us
which portion, the north or south, is to
grow most rapidly hich yield
greater wealth, greater intellligence?
which do most for the world and hu
manity? alas the slave tills the soil ot
the south. his baleful presence des-.|
cerates it; and it lags tar behind the
north in every element of permanent
growth and power!
would you have proof? see it in
the war ot the revolution.
the south was as brave as the
north. the south was as ready to
make sacrifices as the north. but the
means were wanting; the meu; the
power to do. see the effect, according
to the census of 1700.
pofwtation.
slave states and territories. .951,372
new england, 1,099,83*2
the slave states furnished, during
the revolutionary war—(nine years)
59,335 soldiers f»r the continental ar
my; new england, 119,355!! why
this difference? 1* is told in the fact,
that the south had 674,5*27 slaves; the
noith 3,887.
if there be any characteristic of the
south, it is her capability for foreign
trade by sea. look at virginia.
what harbors and bays!—the great
washington thought norfolk would be
the commercial emporium of the world.
but what b the foreign traffic of the
south she owns no ships. northern
capital builds; northern enterprise
mans them. she does not do her own
foreign business northern men chiefly
transact it. mark the consequence.
eight of the atlantic states have no
slaves. io 1816, they bad 2,160,601
tons of shipping; the sen-hoard slave
stales only 401,583! why, even ohio,
fifteen hundred miles from the ocean
hr water, had 39,633? virginia 53,440;
new york 572.522!! in other w»rd>
new york has seventy thousand nine
1 hundred and nine tons mom than mil tb«
slave states! is this accident? is i
ration of means or enterprise no, it
is neither! it ia slavery—and slaver)
alone.
i but go one step further and consider
internal improvements.
this tests progress. show us a peo
t pie with good mads, compact and pop
ulous neighborhoods, ample means ol
i inter-communication, and are will shorn
you a people prosperous, thriving, with
snug cherrful homes, and school
houses, nnd churches everywhere.
where is the state in the south that
t will compare with ohio in this respect:
i w here a the slave state that has pub
lic works that will begin to compart
with iw public ewlntrt' massurehusetts 1
i or new vork? let the test be made l
by railroads. in 181(5, the south had,
2090 miles; the cost $43,910,183
the north that year had 3,553 miles; j
cost $212,914,405. then ssk where j
the capital came from to build these i
southern mads? who built them?;
what is their real worth it is assert- j
ed that all the railroads of the south
are worth $27,717,835; those of .mas-;
l sachusetts alone will command >30,311, j
j 444. but more yet, compare the popu
lation of the north, and the effects j
which public improvements have made
upon the population of the north, aridi
the effect which public improvements!
i have made upon the population of each: 1
the mode of living among the many 01,
j both; their educational condition: their;
general intelligence; their every-da)
comforts; their actual condition. alas!;
,if this comparison were made, the;
southern side of the picture would he
dreary and discouraging enough, and
not a southern man who would not feel
bound to labor for its change. whv
not see it then? why not labor for its,
change? slavery, yea, slavery! is the i
beginning, the middle, and the end, ol
all our ills, of all our woe! rid us ofj
that, and the south will bound up like
a strong man after a refreshing sleep.
shall we multiply examples?
we need not. fet we cannot help
pointing out a few more facts. look
at massachusetts. in one day, ye.-m
in less than one day, you may go to al- i
most any point within the entire state.
the morning after the election, the re-! 1
turns are ail given in the boston pa-it
pers. how is it in kentucky away 1 1
from our water courses and leading
roads, what means of communi- t
cation have we? what opportuni-jt
ties to spread information? wbaf! t
means to diffuse or concentrate thought] i
—to gather the will of our people into
one united expression, and tomake it!
kuowsi and felt throughout ib* land?!'
hi tt 1
not learn the full r&sulfot vituwmj i
for jhree weeks after the day it was j 1
held. w e cannot get the official re-1
turns for a* longe’r p.criod. but look
again at the meansof happines and in- i
dusti ial resource which the facilities
massachusetts enjoys give her. the
traveller goes there for pleasure.—tne i
capitalist lives there for gain. the la- i
borer makes it his home because he is t
respected and can educate his children,
and be educated himself. what of all
these facilities, all these inducements i
hare we? what answer can we make, i
but i hat we have failed or been unable i
to develope our vast resources, simply i
because we hug slavery to our bosoms, s
and say ‘nobody shall disturb it—if is i
ours, and we will have it.’ i
but is that the resolve of kentucky? i
we will not believe it. her good inen i
say rather, ‘it is a curse; it eats up our
substance; destroys our prosperity; l
mars our progress; diminishes our so-
cial, moral, and political power* and 1
we will endure it no longer; it must: i
and shall be removed—we will no long- j i
er tolerate an institution so pregnant
with, evil to ourselves and our pos-; i
terity.’ 1 1
confessions of miss m a rtinkai7.
it must ever be carefully remem
bered that fear often puts on the ap-j
pearance of apathy,—-especially in aj
proud child. xo creature is so intense
ly reserved as a proud timid child, and!
cases are few in which the parents know.
any thing of the agonies of its little
heart, the spasms of its nerves, the
sickness of its days, the horror of its
nights. it hides its miseries under an
appearance of indifference or obstinacy,
till its habitual terror impairs its health,;
or drives into a temper of defiance
and recklessness, i can speak with i
some certainty of t is, from my expe
rience. 1 was as timid a child as ever
was born; yet nobody knew or could
know the extent of this timidity, for
though abundantly open about every-'
thing else, i was as secret as the grave
about this. 1 had a dream at ten years j
old which troubled me to such an ex-
cess that i cannot recall it without a
beating of the heart. 1 could not look
up at the sky on a clear night, for i felt!
as if it was only just above the tree topi
and most crush me. 1 could not cross
the yard excepting at a ran, from a sort
of feeling, with a real belief, that a
bear was after me. the horrors of my
nights were inexpressible. the main
terror however, was a magic lantern
which we were treated with once a!
year, aadwometimes twice. we used
to talk of this exhibition as a prodigious j
pleasure, and i contrived to reckon it
as auch, but i never saw the white doth!
with its circle of yellow light, without
bring in a cold perspiration from head
to foot. one of the pictures cm the
slides wee always soppremed by toy
father, lest it should frighten the little
ones, a dragon’s head vomiting fames.
he little thought that a girl of thirteen
could be terrified by this, hut when i
was thirteen—old enough to be put in
charge of soon of the children who!
to see the magic lantern,—this
slide was exhibited by one of it v broth
ers among the rest. 1 had found if bard
t»ick.
whole ,n 0. 74.
enough to look and laugh ho fore, hot
now 1 turned so faint that i could not
-*tand but by grasping a chair. but
f«r the intensity of my shame i should
have dropped. much of the benefit of
instruction was lost to me during all the
years that i had masters. my memory
failed me when they knocked at the
door, and f could never ask a question,
!or get a voice to make a remark. 1
never could play to my rou.-ic maaler,
or «ing with a clear voice, but when i
was sure nobody could hr nr me uo
der all this, my health was had. my be
i havior was dogged and provoking, and
my temper became for a time insurer
able, its improvement began from the
i year when i first obtained some release
from habitual fear during the criti
cal years i misled everybody about me
by a habit of concealment on tbia one
subject which 1 am sure i should not
have strength for, under any induce
ment whatever because 1 climbed
our apple tree, and rau along on top of
a high wall, and took great leaps, and
was easily won by benevolent stran
gers. and because i was never known
lo bint or i-wn myself afraid, no one
suspected that fear was at the bottom
of the immovable indifference, and ap
parently unfeeling obstinacy by which
i perplexed and annoyed every one
about me. i make these confessions
willingly, in the hope that some inexpe
rienced or busy parent may be awak
ened by them to observe whether *he
seeming apathy of a child be really
from moifterencc, or the outward
working of some hidden passion of fear.
household education.
the poetry of science.
the london examiner, noticing mr.
hunt’s recent publication, the poetry
of science,” glances at some of the
recent marvels of fact which have ta
ken the place, in the popular mind, of
the ancient marvels in the imaginations
of men
science,” it says, has gone down
into the mines and coal pits, and before
the safety-lamp the gnomes and genii
of those dark regions have disappear
ed. but, in their stead, the process by
which metals are engendered in the
course of ages; the growth of plants
which, hundreds of fathoms tinder
ground, and in black darkness, have
still a sense of the sun’s presence in
the sky, and derived some portion of
the subtle esaence-of their life from hia
influence; -the histories of mighty for
ests and great tracts of land carried
down into the sea, by the same process
familiar to us. sirens* mermaids, shi
ning-cities glittering at the hottqjgji of
the quiet seas, and in deep lakes, exist
no longer; but, in their p’ace, science,
their destroyer, shows ’us whole coasts
of coral reef constructed by the labors
of minute creatures; points to our own
chalk cliffs and limestone rocks, as
made of the dust of myriads of genera
tions of infinitesimal beings that have
passed away; reduces the very element
of water into its constituent airs, and
re-creates it at her pleasure. caverns
in rocks, choked with rich treasure,
shut up from all but the enchanted
hand, soience has blown to atoms, as
she can rend and rivet the rocks them
selves; but in those rocks she has found
and read aloud, the great stone book
which is the history of the earth, even
when darkness sat upon the face of the
deep. along their sides she has traced
the foot-prints of birds and beasts,
whose shapes were never seen by man.
from within them she has brought the
bom and placed together the skele
tons of monsters that would have crush
ed the noted dragons of the fables at a
blow. the stars that stud the firma
ment by night are watched no more
from lonely towers by enthusiasts or
imposters, believing, or feigning to be
lieve, those great worlds to be charged
with the small destinies of individual
men down here; but two astronomers,
far apart, each looking from his solita
ry study up*into the sky, .observe, in a
known star, a trembling which fote
warns them of the coming of some un
know k body through the realms of
space, whose attraction at a certain
period of its mighty journey, cause*
that disturbance. in due time it comes
and.passes out of the disturbing path,
the old star shines at peace again; and
the new one, ever more associated with
i the honored names of le verrier and
adams, is called neptune! the astrol
oger has faded out of the castle turret
room, (winchoverlooks a railroad now,)
and forebodes no longer that because
the light of yonder planet is diminish
ing. my lord will shortly die; but the
professor of an exact science has arisen
lin his stead, to prove that a ray of ligbt
must occupy a period of stg years in
traveling to the earth from the nearest
of the fixed stars; and that if one of the
remote fixed start were “blotted out of
heaven” to-day, several generations of
the mortal inhabit ants of this earth
must perish out of time, before the (act
of its obliteration could be known to
man!”
irish wit amp o^i.i.astßv.— on sat*
arday when our street* were a perfect
glare of icc, a lad/ pedestrian jo*t her
balance and fcjl, a* we attned to as*
l»er, we encountered a genuine mm
of the green isle, who on assisting to
raise the udy, exclaimed, “faith %er
nsnst bo a lovely good lady for dost
the blessed book ta«*he ua that it
the wicked that stand on tlipmrv
places. m —lndiana sentinel.
there are two sets of me in the
world,—those who are before the age
and those who are behind it. the for
mer are wiser than their counterparts; the latter part is bemg
wiser than their great great grandfathers.
the annual meeting of this convention will,
he held m boston, on may
and will probably continue in session, as
usual, the two following days- tv wide
reputation of this contention as the most
interesting ami enthusiastic of all the anti*}
slavery gatherings held in the country during,
the year—the solemn and heaven-attested
pledges of the friends of those who are yet
pining in bondage—the critical state ot our
cause, in regard to the establishment of slave
ry on the aotl of california and new mexico,
and to the southern design of securing the
annexation of cuba to the l mted states—
the remembrances of the strengthening inter
views obtained at previous meetings, and live
powerful impetus given to the car of free
dom by each anniversary successively—and
the importance of making ‘a abort work in
righteousness' of the terrible slave system,
by effecting the ovetthrow of its governmental
bulwark, the american i’ninn—should, and
undoubtedly will, bring together a crowded
•uditory, animated by a zeal that never tires,
a vigilance that never slumbers, and a spirit
of heroism that never turns from ihe conflict.
abolit'.omsts in every part of the land we
invite you to be with us on an occasion so
inspiring, in the name of three millions of
slaves and their posterity.
in behalf of the massachusetts anti-slave
iy society.
francis jackson, pnujmf.
rdmund qiincv, srerr/ary.
anti-slavery meeting at bristol, e«g
land.
on friday evening, january 19, there was
a crowded meeting at the public rooms,
ii road mead, to hear some statements in refer
ence to the brazil and cuban slave-trade,
from mr. scoble, secretary to the “british
and foreign ami-slavery society mr. j.
b. estlin was called to the chair, who intro-j
duced mr. scoble to the meeting, and stated'
that he hoped the large audience there assem
bled. w hatever might be the phase of slavery
about to be presented to them, would never
for a moment lose sight of the anti-slave
ry principle, —thui one human being has wo
nght to steal another from the moment of his
forth, nor to steal from him, during ins life,!
the hard earned w r ages of his labor. what
ever they might hear from americans aliout
the laws of their country allowing and regulat
ing slavery, &e., &c., let them repel such
sophistry bv asserting the inherent freedom of:
inan.
mr. scoble then addressed the meeting for
an hour and a half, and was listened to with
unbroken attention; a ihrill of horror occa
sionally running through the audience as he
described the unparalleled sufferings of the
slaves on their passage from africa to cuba
and brazil, lie desired io slate that the so- 1
ciety he represented took no part in the con-!
troversy as to free trade or monopoly: it was!
the rights of the slave that they advocated. he j
then referred to the enormous increase of the
slave trade, in spite of all efforts to suppress it,.
and dwelt upon the frightful ciuellies perpe
trated upon the unhappy africans. so ineffi
cient was the enormous exj»ei)diiure of
money, and of the lives of our seamen io
watching the coast of africa, that for every
four slaves ljl»erated by the armed squadron,
one hundred were srcttyeu rry nu~
era. so profitable was the trade, that if only
one cargo of slaves out of five reached its des
tination, the speculation was richly remunera
tive. since the reduction of the duty on for
eign sugar, the slave trade had received an
immense stimulus; the number of slavo ves
sels was doubled, ami uur cruisers caught on
ly one out of every hundred. some years a-:
go, the english government entered into treat- j
ies with spain and portugal for the abolition
of slavery in their qolonies, and paid a con
siderable sum of money to both those nations
as the terms of their compliance with the con
dition of the bargain. subsequently, on the
separation of brazil from portugal, a fresh
treaty was made with the new brazilian gov
ernment of a similar character. but none of
these countries have fulfilled their engage
ments, and unfortunately the british govern
ment has never insisted upon the performance
of the stipulations. lord palmerston did not
seem unfavourable to their enforcement; hut
laird aberdeen, when he came into office,
consented that the execution of the treaties
should be suspended. the tart is, that at the
present moment treaties exist, which, if hon
estly and hououiahly carried out, would give
freedom to every slave ilicitly imported into
cuba since 1820, and to all brought tu the
brazils since 1820! mr. scoble did not pro
pose by force of arms to cnm|>el these slave- 1
holding countries to keep faith with us, out;
that we should refuse to buy their produce, or!
have any commercial intercourse with them,
until they fulfilled their agreement. the
probable cousequence of this course would he.
that the planters of cuba ami brazil would
|ietitiou for the aliolition of slavery io ordei to
obtain a te-entrance into our inakets.
at the conclusion of mr. scoble's speech,
the chaiiman thought it w'ell to make it clear
to the large assembly, among whom their
might lie some who had not paid much atten
tion to the subject, that mr. scoble’s rentalko
had no reference to anuricun slavery, ol j
which they had been accustomed to tfcur so
much from frederick douglass and others in
that building. none ofthe slaves stolen from
africa found their way to the united states.
that nation (ludicrous as it must appear) ac
tually assisted with their ships the english
and french fleets on the coast of africa to put
an end to the slave-trade! her own slave
trade (america) had the exclusive honor ot
protecting for herself wiihout foreign aid.
not only were her army and navy engaged m
his service, but her legislating and her
(jturchis were called to its support. while
exerting herself to put dow n the ciuel traffic
in slaves by the inhabitants of cuba and bra
zil, she cherished at home an institution that
kept three millions of her ow n citizens in ab
ject slavery, and was guilty ofcruelties in the
carrying on her internal slave-trade, not far
short ot those endured by the native africans
on their middle passage upon the ocean. he
considered the evil now denounced by mr.
scoble as almost iriding when comparer! to
american slavery if the americans would
abolish slavery tu their own couuiry they
would take good care thsi cuba and brazil
should do the same. still, it was our duty to
labor io every direction to put down this terri
bls crime against tiud and man; and if the
i proceedings of this evening had n<> direct u ar
-1 ing upon american slavery they might i.ev
ertbelem be useful in keeping up our own in
terest in this call of duty, aud by showing »he
americans that wc shall maintain an ui.com
promising hostility to slavery until us utter
extinction throughout the civilised world
'l’he rev. mi. maclean, seconded by ihc
rev. mi. wood,proposed a resolution embod v-1
ing some of mr. scoble’s statements, und
suggesting a petition to thel louse oft ominous
to request the liovernjoent to enforce the exe
cution of the standing treaties w ith t üba and
the brazils, under the penalty of exclusion of
their productions from our markets.
the resolution was passed unanimously,
and the thanks of the meeting aecordgd to
mr. scoble.
tbitidc (,'hiiicim). —no wkete io oui
nation, not even in lb* south, have the notn
<nally free colored people been treated with
more unrelenting injustice and cruelty than in
the northwestern sutea. a large proportion
of their wb&e population being etther from
the slave region* where they have been te
customed to look upon the colored man as
slew* and to lord it over him without restraint,
or hating imbibed their prejodieics from asso
ciation with mich, it is not strange that their
legislation and customs should exhibit the
spun of slavery in all it* hateful inhumanity. i
we regard tjveir barbarous black laws as the j
direct a txk natural off shoot froni slaverv. and j
do not wonder that the slate jmrty south and j
north hare lient their energies i« perpetuate j
them, knowing as they do that slavery cannot
long survive the acknowledgment of the ne
gro's manhood and hts rights at the north.
but thanks to the power <4 troth, the dark
code is passing away, lu repeal in ohio has
already been a subject of icjoknng among the
lovers of progress and freedom, and we now
have the plaasute of marking the lieginnmg of
a similar movement in lowa. heretofore the
colored people of low a have been used to
support common schools, (rum all the privi
leges of which they were debarred- this law
has been repealed, and their money is no long
er to be plundered from them to educate white
children to despise them for their ignorance;
though they are still deprived of the benefit*
of the public schools, sod have no eocourag
tnenu extended to them to improve themselves
by education. this act of progress is trulv a
little matter, compared to what is still left un
done, but it marks the changing nt the tide of
public prejudice, which till lately has been
rising higher and higher, and accumulating
injustice and oppression upon this powerless
people. the current once turned, and a
course of justice begun, we may hope lor it to
go on with accelerating speed, till the full and
equal brotherhood of these long injured and
outcast men is acknowledged. the hatred
which shuts tfie colored mao from the motives
and opportunity of improvement, is as foolish
as it is wicked it is storing retribution for
itself. it is making into a pest, a perpetual
foe, or grievous burden to society, men who
might be trained to virtue, and honor, and in
telligence. it is a self-punishment which the
wrong deserves, and will ever receive, till a
wiser and better sentiment restores to the vic
tims of our oppression their lull manhood.—
pennsylvania freeman.
admission. —mr. hilliard, of alabama, in j
llie course of a speech made by him in the j
house (if representatives, remarked:
“mr. chairman 1 am about to make a state
ment which inay be thought to have the
demerit of too much frankness. i shall make
it m all candor. theie is a domestic institu-
lion in the south which in some sort isolates
us from all mankind. the civilized world is
against us. 1 know it. i comprehend it; 1
feel it. a sentiment which took its birth in
england, which has since spread over the
continent -of europe, w hich now covers a
large proportion of our own country —a senti
ment, gathering strength with every advanc
ing year, threatens to overwhelm us. ihe
tide has been rising higher and higher, until j
sir, we begin to feel the spray breaking over;
the embankments which surround us. our
moral condition at the south resembles the
physical condition of holland, where dykes,
thrown up by the ingenuity of men, imrdly
protect the habitations of man against the
incursions of the sea. if the south were in j
a commanding position, 1 would be willing to
concede much; but because of her very
weakness, i shall stand by her to the last.
my eyes first beheld the light there, and
there my eyes shall close upon it. i was
nurtured in the bosom of the south, and i wish
to rest in her bosom when this consciousness
is at an end, and this form is wasting in the
dust. no change of circumstances, no
overwhelming power arrayed against her, no
decline of her fortunes, can induce me, for
one, to forget or forsake her.
holding the opinions that i do—represent
ing a people thus invested by the civilized
wink)—l cauuol consent, for one smgle ino
ment, i*. abandon any part of their mtirut.
before 1 consent, ky any act or vote of mine',
to surrender our "wo „f the rights
or the honor of u>v »ne south •tny
right hand shall forget us cuming, and my
longue shall cleave to the roof of ruy mouth.”
thk pearl trials. —the washington
correspondent of the evening post gives the
following inhumation of the state trials for
abducting slaves from the district last
year
law, justice and common sense have
achieved one signal victory over judge
crawfotd, the presiding judge of the criminal
court qf this district. the judge was ap
pointed by mr. polk, and being a northern
man by birth, though long a resident and
office-holder here, he has seemed to think it
incumbent on him to show himself a worthy
i representative of his patron's principles.
as is usual in such cases, lie over-acts bis
part. i gave your readers some instaucs of
j this disposition on the pait of his honor,
1 during the interesting trial, last summer, of
j the persons charged with the abduction of
i slaves on board the schooner pearl his
honor’s rulings and decisions were promptly
overrruled in the couit above’, and a new trial
j ordered on the old indictment. the first
prisoner, drayton, put on his second trial,
j has l>een acquitted. he is now undeigoing
trial upon other counts of the same indict
ment, not tried before.
the district attorney, key, has taken the
sensible precaution to associate with himself
walter jones, esq., reputed lobe the most
learned laivyer in the district. the prisoners
are defended with zeal, eloquence and ability,
by hon. horace mann of massachusetts,
and j. m. carlisle, esq. of this place.
slavic abduction prevented. —the
richmond (va.) enquirer publishes an ac
count of an attempt to escape which occurred a*
that place last week, the main points of which
are condensed as follows:
much excitement was produced yesterday
by a strange incident at the depot of the
richmond and potomac rail-road company.
a negro dravman carried to the office of
adams co.’s express two large square
uixes, addressed lo “p. williamson, no.—
buttonwood street, philadelphia.” on be
ing interrogated as to whence they came, the
negro showed some confusion. still the
boxes were placed on the express wagon and
transported to the cars. as the driver of
the w’agou turned one of the boxes over rath
er roughly, he heard a sort of grunt, which
proceeded from it. suspicon was aroused,
the boxes opened, and each one was found to
contain a stout negro, carefully folded up,
w ith a small quantity of bread and a bladder
of water, and one of them with a fan— a
useful article in his warm situation. on ex
amining the boxes a large auger hole was
observed in each hox. partially concealed by a
stout rope-knot, which could be withdrawn
while in the cars, and allow the entrance of
air. the negroes, we hear, belonged, one
to mrs. c. christian, of new kent, the
oilier to mr. govan's estate, and were em
ployed as waiters, one at the washington and
the other at the columbia hotel.
their story is, that they had been prepared
for transportation by mr, s. a. smith, who
keeps a small shoe store on broad street, in
mr. james lyon's new buildings, ami that
they had paid him well (some of $6o each)
ioi the job. smith w as present at the open
ing of the boxes, and immediately went up
•be street and took the northern cars as they
passed. 'l*his fact being made known, after
uie cars had departed, a telegraphic despatch
w as sent to fredericksburg to arrest him
there. the negro drayman represents that
touh directed him to state at the express
ofltc** that the boxes were from the armory.
canada am> annexation.— we commend
the following extract from a reported sneech ol
sir allan mcnab. in the provincial home
of assembly, on saturday lest, to the alien- i
lion ol our readers. the subject of
was an address to the government. sir 1
allan is ooe of the lenders of the british 1
party whom some uke to be in foot of i
annexation to the united state*. what
good ground time is for ant mqkxm,
read and nidge
sir allan mrnak, treated with the meal
profound contempt the idea that had been
industriously circulated throughout thiaooenry.
of annexation to thu united states. (luod
cheering.) he warn prepared to by down
bis life on the arafimd, or oa the field, to
maintain the connection with great britain.
(loud cheers from both parties) mr. not man
—how about the hami)u« spectator t the
hamilton spectator? what had he to da
with the hamilton spectator l (ironical
cries of “hear* hear!” the articles on an
nexation in the spectator emanated from a
titan who entertained the same opt moos as the
honorable member himself. d)id any honora
ble member mean to say that he (sir allan)
adopted the opinion of any roan who wrote w
the hamilton spectator in favor of annexa
tion 1
had not the same opinions been advanced
in the journal and express, and other papers
throughout the province l but be would
state publicly and before the country, that be
had no community of feeling with the men
who entertained those opinions. (cheers.)
the whole course of bis life showed his at
tachment to british connection, (cheers)
and he was prepared at all times and in every
place, to unite with every good man »n put
ting down such opinions, and defending our
connection with the mother country.
(cheers).”
still another prominent majority member,
well known in these states, thus defined his
position on annexation:
“dr. nelson contended that the whole of
the rural population was well pleased with
the ministry, and would sustain it. he con
demned all ideas of annexation, and though
he had lived in the united state*, and enter
tained tlie very highest respect for the people
there, he would consider it a great misfortune
for canada to join them.”
now, this does not indicate that strong
irrepressible hankering after annexation which
certain presses, on this side of the border
tell us, is abroad.
the north star.
rochester, may 2 5'184p
what flood baa the free soil more*
meat, done?
the “north” star in common with many
oiher antislavery journals, gave to this move
ineut at its commencement an earnest word
of encouragement. it was regarded as a
hopeful movement, containing within itself
the elements of progress. the grand na
tional convention held at buffalo, indicated a
i vigorous vitality in ihe movement “deeper,
sterner, and stronger,” then what appeared
upon the surface of its written proceedings.
it however challenged favor more on account
of what it might become, than what it was at
i that lime. its shortcomings at the com
mencement, were set down to the newly
awakened state of the moral sense of those
who gave “form and presence” to the move
ment. the comprehensive mantle of charity
w as throw n over the defective free soil plat
form. the ciicumstauces in which the
i
originators of that movement were placed,
j the crisis to be met, the early associations ol
its leading spirits, the necev iy. and desire
for union, and the difficult d securing it on
high moral grounds —were pleaded in extenua
tion of the low standard erected by the free
soil party and not without effect many
good men felt that was lime, the
place, a-rd the platform upon which, to work
‘i decisively against ihfe monster slavery, and
they rushed into it.
i in the whirl uf excitement, always attend
ant upon a presidential election, men’s minds
become misty and confused, and the fog and
dust of the canvass prevented an intelligent
judgment as to the effect of tlseir action.
that day has now gone by, the circumstances
are i>ow very different from what they then
were, a more dispassionate examination of
the subject can now be gone into, and wiser
conclusions may be arrived at wiib respect
to it.
in what we now propose to sayof the free
soil movement, we would not be understood
tu deny that it has done some good. such a
conclusion would be very unjust and wholly
unnecessary to establish the point which seems
to us true of its action and history thus far.
nor do we mean to find fault with political
action, in a party form against slavery. there
is no question with us that the anti-slavery
movement will always be followed at a greater
or lesser distance by a political party of some
sort. it is inevitable. while antislavery
views are propagated and the public mind is
stirred and divided upon them, there will al
ways be found politicians who will lean to
the one or the other side. each taking up
the views of iheir respective movements, in
the least objectionable manner, and thereby
gaining political conspicuousness if not victory
and the spoils of office.
but to the question, what good has the
free soil movement done 1 much in many
ways but not every way. it has for once
rallied a large number of the people of the
north in apparent hostility to the whole
system of american slavery|; it has sub
jected this vile abomination to a wide-spread
expus ire it has rebuked and humbled quite
a number of corrupt and cringing politicians,
by driving them to change their positions on
this subject, and driven them from office. i
has awakeued the w hole south to a sense ol
dangei, and perhaps has checked the prsud
and arrogant pretensions ot the slaveholder
with respect to the extension of slavery. se
far so good. it shall have all the credit te
which it is entitled. there arc toen now eon
nected with it of whom we never think but
with grateful esteem and respect. their
voices have been uplifted boldlv and power
fully in the councils of the nation in hehall
of justice, freedom and humanity, and who
must always be remembered with an abound
ing heart of gratitude by ooe who has en
dured »s we have done, the horrors of slavery.
but even these noble spirits cannot save the
movement flow cause of complaint, or make
it worthy of the support of those who would
tabor effectually against slavery. the reasons
which oooe seemed to weigh in its favor
have ceased.
u promised much and has performed liuie.
it appeared to he an active movetweet, flood
ing the land with tracts, pamphlets and pa
pers of various acting upon, and
changing the moral sentiments from fr»,
to jahdmwy it proves to be a dal) and
indolent concern, goodie deep sad refining te
wake, until reused by the thunders of another
political campaign. not a single lecturer of
that movement, dots the sorfaen of this widt
md of labor. it pmmiiil to he n ptegwa.
rive movement, it baa not even been a stand
still ooe, but has actually proved s retragmd
ißf miihu, gradually imppmrittg, lam
«f nought bat tbe dead badf of basharim
occupy place. instead of appasmßatiag
to tiie tiac standard of abolition*®, tad there
by rendering the movement worthy «f tbe
countenance of awabmy men, it is artaaliy
i seeking alliance with tbe eoeoiieaof that holy
cause. tbe free soil iwwemeat has done,
and is rtill doing much barm. it is standing
io the way. mucking up tbe path, and cutting
off supplies, trom a higher mod holier move
ment titan it has ever aspired to be. its pa
pers hare supplanted sod crushed others
which but tor ibese. would have pro*-
pered mad been useful to tbe cause they were
to advocate. it bas swallowed up
the liberty pony press of the land, and weak
ened its once powerful testimony against sla
very. it has taken off from the old anti
slavery platform many whose usefulness de
pended almost wholly upon tbe character and
energy of their leaders, and begot in i be pub
lic mind indefinite and intangible notions as to
tbe means o! overt bowing slavery, where be
fore all was plain sod straight-forward.
upon the whole it lias left the public mind in
a more difficult state to deal with than it found
it. it found it agitatsd. divided, aod the lines
drawn distinctly, but pas left it dull, stupid,
undefined, **d ifididhient. instead of making
the task of the abolitionist lighter, it has in
creased his burdens. tbe work for abolition
ists to do now, is to press their old issues up
on tbe public mind with redoubled earnestnes
sod zeal, blow ing aw ay the dust and fog of half
way measusues, and doctrines. no alw>lt
lionist, who is truly such, will be gratified
with, or encourage any measure or doctrine
that does not contemplate slavery everywhere
as marked out lor destruction. it is a foul
system —at war w ith the happiness of man and
the laws of god, and tliere must be uu com
promise with it. to denounce it in califor
nia, to oppose its introduction in new mex
ico, and give it constitutional and }hilitical
sanction in new orleans, is worse than incon
sistent, and can only end in a revelation of ful
ly and hypocrisy, without advancing the cause
of freedom at all. —r. d.
colorphobia iu new york!
the tilth of may will long be remembered
as the most trying day ever experienced by
the unfortunate victims of colorphobia in the
city of new york. the disease was never
more malignant or general than on that day.
the streets were literally crowded with per
sons of all classes afflicted with this terrible
malady. whole omnibus loads were attack
ed at the same moment, anti their hideous and
uneaithly howls were truly distressing, ex
cruciating. it will be impossible to describe,
or give the reader any correct idea either ol
the extent of the disease or the agony it
seemed to occasion. like most epidemics, its
chief havoc was among the baser sort. the
suffering here was fearful and intense. if the
genteel suffered from the plague, they man
aged to suppress and control their feelings
3 better than what are called the lower or
i ders.” but, even here, there could be nu
successful concealment. the strange plague
3 defied all concealment, and would show itsell
f iu spite of veils, white- pocket handkerchiefs,
b paruols, hats, bonnets and umbrellas. in the
i refined tins presence of the plague might be
seen by a distortion of the countenance, a red
and furious look about the cheek, a singular
turn up of the nose, and a lom-r me ex
s pression of the eyes.
1 among the low and vulgar the symptoms
t were differentthe hand clinched, head
shaking, teeth grating, hysteric yells and hor
rid imprecation, marked the presence of the
disease and the agony of the miserable crea
tures who were its unfortunate victims. per
sons who, at a distance of thirty or forty
l yards, appeared the very pictures of health,
were found, oil a nearer approach, most hor
ribly cut and marred.
but the effect upon the outward man was
l not half so strange ami dreadful as that upon
r the mind. here all was utter ruin. gough's
description of delirium tremens would not
be much out of place in describing one haunt
ed and afflicted with colorphobia. monsteis,
i goblins, demons, snakes, lizards and amrpi
ons—all that was foul, strange and loath
some—seized upon their bewildered knugina
i tions. pointing with outstretched arm to
wards us, its victims would exclaim, as ii
i startled by dome terrible sight— 1 “look! look!”
“where!” “ah,what!” “why?” “why,
don’t you see?” see what?” why, that
black! slack black!” tlieu, with eyes
turned up in horror, they would exclaim in
the most unearthly manner, and start off in a
furious gallop—running ali around us, aod
gazing at us, as if they would read our very
hearts. the w hole scene was deeply afflict
ing and terrible.
but to the cause of this wide-spread plague,
ot rather the manifestation of it. we think
it can all be made plain to the dullest compre
hension. there had arrived in new york, a
few days previous, two english ladies, from
fjnndon—friends of fkedekick doc glass—
and iiad taken apartments at the frauklir
house, broadway; and were not only called
upon at that hotel by mr. douglass, but re
ally allowed themselves to lake his arm, auc
to walk many times up and down broadway
in broad-day light, when that great thorough
fare was crowded with pure american lad id
and gentlemen. such an open, glaring out
rage upon pure american tastes had never be
fore been perpetrated. two ladies, elegantl]
attired, educated, and of the most approved
manners, faultless in appearance arid position,
actually walking, and leaning upon the am
of a person, with a akin not colored like then
own? oh! idouuioua! was it not eaougk
to cause the very stones to leap up with in
dignation from the pavement 1 aod to “stii
them up to mutiny and rage” l more and
worse still, these ladies appeared wholly in
different to, and oblivious of, alt the indigna
rioo and fury going about them; but
walked, talked and acted as though nothing
unusual waa passing. in a word, they sees*
ad to forget that they were ia the greatest
commercial emporium of this, the mightiest
natron ia the world, mad to set as though they
had been ia the paltry ettmf loudon m
*«*d of new york. wtftooald they have
been thinking about? how straoge that they
had not made themselves acquainted with the
tastiutuoos aud cusumm of the great nation,
v* »hem meted sod they were mlumed to
haw singular that their friends had
mi warned than such a tmiiiiiiiae
outrage apes the eatahliahed of. (his,
the “/rest* country ta the world! they
eeruiafj ant bare too hnim
pomtble “that nature toco«w "ckww*,
conjuration—mighty roagie,” h te ke
wildered and misled them. they h«re
been kindly received and bmp«*my e*li£
tuned by some of the owe* i**p«ciawe
reined families in the city of new **k; but,
with a strange hallucination, they preferred
to identify themselves with the despised
and injured portion of all the people of amer
ica—asd thus to make themselves of no repu
tation, and rut themselves off from sll sympa
thy and attention of the highly favored and
accomplished son* and daughters of america.
before quitting this subject, we wish to call
attention to certain singular inconsistencies
connected with the development of the feel
ing, called (erroneously) prejudice against
color. the first is this. the poor creatures
who seemed most disturbed by the fact that
these ladies walked through the streets of
new york in company with a colored man,
f it in no w ise shocked at seeing ladies seated
in their gilded carriages, with colored persons
seated near them, driving their horses aud
otherwise assisting such ladies- all this was
perfectly right. they were in the capacity of
servants. hence new yoik toadyism is
rather pleased than disgusted. it is not with
colored servants that new yoik loafers are
displeased; but with colored gtntltmen. it
is wilh the colored roan as a gentleman that
they feel the roost intense displeasure. they
cannot bear it, and they must pour out their
pent-up wrath, whenever an opportunity is
afforded for doing so.
in this same franklin hotel, in which we
could not be allowed to dine on account of our
color, we saw a large number of colored wait
ers in the nearest proximity to white gentle
men and ladies, without offence.
we, however, tire of this subject. this
prejudice is so unjust, unnatural and irration
j al, that ridicule and indignation seem to be
the only weapons with which to assail it.
our friends informed us that when they
landed, they were assured that they had reach
ed the shores of a free country, and were con
gratulated upon that fact. hut they had
scarcely reached the hotel, when they were
informed that a friend of theirs, who was not
deemed unfit to be associated u'lth in london,
i
and who would have been kindly received at
the best hotels in that city, and in paris,
1 would not be allowed to take dinner wilh
j them at tire franklin hotel, in the city ol
new yoik. in this free country one is not
permitted to choose and enj«y the society ol
his friends, without being subjected to innu
merable insults and annoyances.
we shall not, however, despair on this
point. a marked improvement has ahead)
taken place in the manner of treating colored
travelers, and the change is going on still
nothing, however, facilitates this more that
such examples of fidelity to principle, and iiv
difference to a corrupt and brutal public opin
ion, as is presented in the conduct of lhes<
two english ladies, and others. this preju
j dice must be removed and the way for aboli
tionisls and colored persons to remove it, ist<
act as though it did not exist, aud to associafi
with their fellow creatures irrespective of al
complexional differences. we have marker
j out this path for ourselves, and we mean tt
pu[boc it at al! hazards.— f. o.
the discussion of the constitution with
samuel r. waul.
it is already known to our readers that we
accepted the challenge of mr. ward to dis
cuss with him the question of the attitude of
.the american constitution to slaveiy. that
discussion came oil' one week ago this day,!
in the minerva rooms, new yoik. it corn
■unenced at three o’clock in the afternoon and
continued till five. the meeting, which was
quite large, adjourned till half past seven in
the evening. each speaker was allowed
thirty minutes. five speeches were made
on both sides and the meeting ended at near
eleven o'clock.
the discussion was something new for us,
being the first in which we ever engaged. it,
however, proved a very pleasant and agreca-i
ble enteitainnieut —one which we shall re-'
member with the lies! of feelings, both to the i
audience and to our respectable and vety lal-,
ented antagonist.
if mr. vv ard was not victoiious in the ar
gument, it was certainly through no want of
mental ability, but solely owing to the un
soundness of the cause which he undeitook to
defend. he showed himself a skilful debater,
as well as a powerful deciaimer and certain-1
ly possessed a large power over the intelligent
audience before him. with an opponent of
such genius and magnanimity it affords us
i pleasure to discuss any question of difference.!
there was evidently no wish on his part to
take the slightest advantage of a single re-
mark, or in any way to force a meaning upon j
the words of the opposing speaker w inch was
oot intended to be conveyed. we, of course, j
still hold that we have the truth on tlie sub
ject, however plain the opposite may appear
to mr. ward and his litends.—r. d.
a volime im a sentence.—the louis
nlk (ky.) examiner says. we are inform
ed that a very interesting discussion upon the
subject of emancipation was held recently in
j woodford county betweeo rev. mr. waller
j and thomas f. marshall, esq. mr. wsltei,
i who is i pro-slaverv candidate for the con
vention. undertook the somewhat difficult task
of proving slavery a divine institution. in
i his earnest advocacy of the sacred cause, mr.
;w. labored to show that slavery has the di
rect approval and sanction of jehovah. mr.
i marshall rose to reply. ah who know his
peculiar manner of speaking, can easily imag
ine the effect produced by uis reply, as pun
gent as it was brief’'
“the gentleman," says mr. marshall,
“has attempted to prove that the messing o!
heaven^rests upon the institution of slavery.
i ftacr to-nmek respect for say hod to attempt
to defend hun from suck a dander.
alvan stewart is no more. a man of
surpassing eloquence and much philanthropy,
who took a leading part in the cause of tem
perance and freedom, has just passed sway,
roe tin* ism few years he resided chiefly in
new york, suffering intensely fresn ih in as as
contracted from those stimulating mdufgee
ces in early life, for which the eloquence of
years did so much to free bis fellow
men.—we hope ere king to give out readers
a mom extended notice 1 of him. —bottom
ckeonotppe.
escape or slaves. —an excitement was pto
dnoad is w heating, vs. on s sunday evening
and monday morning, by the escape of seven
er eight staves belonging to menus. archfe
bsldpanll, tbos. paou, sod samuel mwresfl.
appearances left an soom to doubt that they
km secretly fed into ohio n orbing fern yet
been beard horn them.
jr
slav* catoiku— 44 c«»ei«uee' a•£»
whaiber, by copying an reticle about the es
cape of a alavu by boxing wmaelf op, and
cuunng on by ixtftead, directed in a non hern
abobtioowt. wn “intend to anndioo and «p
-prote of the course of the persons who zemii
«d the slave to escape/’ we ansvrer that no
soch approval is to be inferred fnsn our publi
cation- we publish all sorts of doings, soil
must not by any means be beld to approve an
act because we record it, even when we do ooj
condemn if.
—but as to the general question involved,
we say, once for all, that we bold every inoo
cent mao's right to bnuself paramount to any
light to his body, which can be verecd in an
other; and if a box should come directed kbus
with a lire loan in it, we should at the very
least presume him ihe owner of haßsalf* until
somebody else proved his title to him. that
done, wc should let that somebody take his
property running, recognising no obligation
resting on us to help hint catch it. we are
sure the laws of the land do not require us to
turn slave catcher, ai least until the particular
person sought is proved to us to be the stave
of the person in quest of him —and we are
rather slow of faith in such cases. tribune.
the two parts of this explanation to “con
science/* don’t seem to my simple judgment,
to hold togeilier remarkably well. first “an
innocent man's right to himself is paramount
to any right to his body which can be vested
in another." most irue and incontrovertible.
second, “the laws of the land do uot require
us to tuin slave-catcher, at least," &c.
now, here is the difficulty: »t the right of
the “innocent man to himself is paramount to
any right to his body which can be vested in
another,” i should like to know what ne
cessity there is for the editor of the trihune
or any one else troubling himself about what
law requires l justice is above jaw laws,
every one of them, which require men to do
wrong, are to be resisted, bv all j»eaceable
means—not obeyed. an “innocent” man’s
right to life is paramount to any right which
might be vested in another, tn take away las
life. could any provision of law invalidate
that right, or render innocent those who,
obeying its dictates, willfully imbitted their
i hands in the blood of their fellows l no
1 more can any one innocently, even under
provisions of law, either in the first part or
as an accessary, be insti uniental in robbing a
man—black or white—no matter which—of
j his paramount right to himself. we may
wander for ever in the tortuous mazes of law,
politics, and expediency, but under the infal
lible guidance of eternal and unalterable right,
we cannot err.— j. d.
annexation. —some of the canada pai>ers
oppose the annexation of canada to the uni
ted states, on the ground that were it so the
owners of slaves would there seek and get
their runaways. we suppose the editors
think it much better that the white men should
be subject to be caught w henever they may he
i found, and pressed into the british navy or
army, to lie hogged if they do not obey some
twig of the aristocracy whose father has pur
chased a commission for him, and to he shot
if he deserts his post or raises his hand
against one of these fools to repel an indignity.
pshaw how ciude are some men’s notions
!of human liberty.— wheeling la.) gazette.
what tight have you to “suppose” any
such thing if there is any necessity for sup
posing at all, it seems more reasonable to
supposer that as these canadian editors
are opposed to the ot the negro,
they are also opposed vo all the forms of en
slavement of the white man. besides, if this
editor does not know he ought to know, that
white man are not “subject to be caught when
ever they are found,” and pressed into sheßrit
i-li navy. there has not, so far as is known,
been any single instance of involuntary im
pressment into the british army or navy, since
the year 1815. the entire system, it isquile
true, is bad, wicked, detestable, but riot in any
sense or degree to be compared with theinfer
nal of virginia and uther slave
states, which piake men—their bodies, souls,
and spirits—not only servants for a time, of
i the government —but the “property," in as
1 complete a sense as their horses and cattle are
property, of individual citizens of those states.
are there no “fools” in virginia who shoot
lheir slaves if they raise their hands to repel
an indignity? if they do not, it is only be
cause the “fools” there have an equally cer
tain and more profitable mode of punishing
insubordination, by selling their “vicious”
human cattle to the southern slave-trader. it
is infinitely better to have “crude notions
of liberty," than like the editor of the wheel
ing gazette, uot to have the most distant con
ception of what it means.—j. d.
attempted escape.—a negro woman
named harriet toney, slave of jt*r. cann,
was arrested last night by watchman wright,
of the w estern district, while on the point of
attempting to escape, in company with some
white persona, to pennsylvania. she was
sent home to her mastet m the morning.—
baltimore american, 16/d.
effect of imprison men t.—/the pliyai
eian of the auburn stale prison reports that,
from a careful investigation of convicts under
a long term of imprisonment, he is irresis
tibly led to the conclusion, that five years is
the longest term which a convict can pass iu
confinement and be restored to the world with
a sound mind m a sound body. the mind,
like the body, in the absence of proper exer
cise, loses its tone and strength. convicts
despair of ‘seeing out’ a long sentence, lie
thinks lhat after long terms n would before
merciful to retain them for life than to re
turn them to the world, incapable of -elf
control. 227 of the prisoners, he says con
fess their guilt; ddsdenrit; 356 think they are
benefited by the imprisonment. among the
“occupations" of those sentenced st auburn,
i find 16 sportsmen, 10 speculators; 1 is 3 are
unable to read; 1 in 2 left or were deptjved of
home before they were sixteen yearn of age.
smtcxy in masbacml’scts. —eigthy years
ago slavery existed m maasachusseu, an t was
practised by some, as eruelly as now on the
sugar pbntauuas is louisiana. mrs child, to
her hsrtory of woman says, “a wealthy in
dy residing w gloucester, maas., was in the
habit of giviog awsy the infants of her female
slaves a few days after they wore born, just
as people are aoesstomed to dispose oft bom
of kittens. one of her neighbor* begged as
infest, which in those day* of compentive
simplicity, she eourahed with her own milk,
and reared tmaag her own children.*- this
meaua bad aa os meat desire a brocade
gown, mod bee husband not feeling aids to pur
chase one, she seat her little nursling to vir
fiota and sold bar, when she was about seven
years aid.
itmtuau new california. —a party of
ive or six now yorkers, who had matted for
the el dorado a few weeks mom by the fend
mrte through texas, armed here ea wed
aeadey evening ea the peytooa. they were
thoroughly diretwni with goid-seekmg before
mmfdetiag ban the journey, sad eoaaksiad
that they bad seenaonogh of “the elephant.'’
2mg* tefej? hfot, re 3sfe»
heme that sane avemag. oaa of omm bad
expended bis relit and jreroey
redtbe wholepretgjred the jaded aadwotj.
t**— *fireferenmras -ifj—fewfh uunml
vok inr ms woakino mr*.—the me
chanter and working men of louisville, k y
recently adopted th follow mg resolution at a
public meeting; and. at the same lime, or
dered the |-mblicat{<m of jo.ooo rnpfo* of an
address- cm rmaocipatioo.
resolved, that the institution of ahverv
is prejudicial to every interest of the .state,
and is alike injurious lo the slaveholder and
non-slaveholder; that it degrades labor, ener
vates industry, interferes with the occupations
of free laboring citizens, separates ton widely
the |»oor and the rich, shots out the laboring
classes from the blessings of education, ar.j
tends to drive from ihe state all who depend
upon personal labor for uppori. that while
we recognise the right <d property in slates
under existing laws, we bold that the labor
ing man has as fujl a right to his occupation
and the profits of his labor, as ihe master to
his slaves; and as slavery tends to ihe mono
poly of as well as the degradation of labor,
public and private right require its ultimate
extinction.
slave inscarection in brazil.—w« are
informed by a merchant of this city, who has
received letters from pernambuco to the ond
ot match, that the report brought by
the f.nglisli captain to demarara, and
thence published in some of the new york
papers, of a general slave insuirecnon throgh
out biazd, is altogether groundless. the
troubles at pernambuco are of a political na
ture, and originated in the government at bio
janeiro sending down a new president for
that province, thus ousting the old incumbent,
who belonged to tlie democratic patty. upon
which the pariv flew to arms, and with some
of their late deputies at their head, entered
and attacked the city. they were repulsed
w ith the loss ol a number of iheir leaders, and
a large numlier of the rank and file.
at the last accounts, (3d ot march) there
was a minor that the insurgents were about
again lo attack the city. the governor
however, had torti tied it strongly, and
dailyexpected reinforcement from rio janeiro,
so that it was thought impossible for the in
surgents to be successful. outside of the cit y
there were bands of insurgents roving about,
but they were not in numbers sufficient to be
formidable.— boston traveller.
they will leave north carolina.—
our attention was arrested, on saturday last,
by quite a long train of wagons, winding
through our sheets, which upon inquiry, we
found to belong to a parly emigrating from
wayne county, in this state, to the “far
west." this is hut a repetition of many
similar scenes that we and others have wit
nessed during the past lew years: and such
spectacles will be still more frequently wit
nessed, unless something is done to retric\e
our fallen fortunes at home.
if there lie any one “consummation devoutly
to be wished" in cur policy, it is ;sat our
young men should remain at home, and not
abandon their native state. from the early
settlement of north carolina, the great drain
upon her prosperity has been ihe spirit of emi
gration, which has so prejudicially affected all
the states of the south. her sons, huheiio
neglected (if we must say it) by an unparental
government, have wended their way, by hun
dreds upon hundreds, from the land of their
fathers—that land, 100, to make it a paradise,
wanting nothing but a market—to bury their
ilhmics in the land of slrangeis. we firmly
believe that this emigration is caused by the
laggaid policy of our people on ihe subject of
internal improvement—for man is not prone
by nature to desert the home ot ins affection*.
raleigh (a c.) register.
the register knows very well, that had the
i state free labor institutions, and nothing but
a free labor population, there would be no
complaint for a mck ot enterprise, neglect of
interior improvements, or depopulation.
it would not surprise us if this respectable
old stale should show a retrogade inarch in
population in 1850. from 1830 to 18|0, her
slaves increased ai the rate of a hum more
than four per cent; her white population at
the rate of only one percent.—the whole in
crease of the avhites in ten years having been
but 5,212. the total population of massa
chusetts is about the same as that of north
carolina; it is well known, too, that she is
subject to a continual drain from immigration,
but her population increased from 1830 to
18-40, 127,391, or at the rate of over twenty
per cent.
what makes the contrast between the two
states more striking, is the relative densities
of their populations; north carolina contain
ing only seventeen inhabitants to the square
mile,, while massachusetts contains cishtv
bix.
in view ot these facts, it would scein that
the sensible people of north carolina ought
lo lie in favor of free soil.—a at. era.
dalmatian proverbs.— he that is prodigal
of thanks is avaricious of gratitude.—w'hen a
wolf is fatigued even his tail is heavy—he
that seeks to act gloriously must not act dex
terously.—when you steal another man’s
hen, lie your own by the leg.—every one
praises the rose while it gives a pleasant
odout.—when misfortunes come, pause nut
to weep, but hasten to change.—the head*
fullest of brains are often the most liable to
extravagance.—choose yu<ir wife by your
ears rather then by vour eyes.— baton’s
highlands and islands of the adnata.
from independence.—r. rush sajone,
esq., of this city, arrived here to-day from
independence, missouri, which place he lett
a week ago last monday. from him we
learn that there .*,500 4'ahiorma emj~
grants at independence, and more than that
number at st. juseph. the companies trav
eling the overland route from chicago to in
dependence had lost half of their teams ,n
consequence of the severity of the weather
and the impassable roads, ft was believed at
independence that emigrants, after the fir.-»t
companies, would find great difficulty in pro
curing food for their teams, iu crossing the
i in consequence of the immense num
her crossing.
i the company of sanduskians, eleven ui
i number, who felt here last january, uudci
command of mr. johnson, or “black haw k.”
i broke up their camp near independence on
saturday, the ffth lost., and started on their
march over the prairie*. they, with two
j other companies of about the same number,
i one from new york, and the-other from st,
f«>uis, were the first to leave. mr. sloane
visited their carup when one day on then
march, and found ih.un at good health and
•purrs, looking well, and all thetr appoint
rents superior to any other company. they
had not yet got through cheering iu const
queue*? of the election of chase to the u .v
senate.— sandusky mirror.
caolema in cincinnati.—the pittsburgh
pom of the 16th mat., has the following tel
egraphic despatch.
“the bored of health report twenty-eiglk
new of the bofera, writlun
hjmre here—6 death*. for tfo week ending
he hotera raging to this extent in f’w-
ztl*'*"** m fuw «*ad by the pres*
mali there, or alluded to something after thu
«*py from the f tocmuau t orn
meiml, of the khbutst
"since our last weekly, rumor* of cbofcia
bee* preyaiem, but we have not fteu
c^. u< tbe board of health
f**** m yet the rumors continue.
trertwlami a few east* of the (wen
feret beets, and a few naturally oc
the city, but three is no alarm, nor
any. unarerenuy incods are
assured that there is no cause for ahum."
the cholera is largely on an increase in st. louis. 
the number of deaths by cholera in new orleans, during the week ending in may 6th, was
78, and by other diseases,67.
dear sir - as your exchanges mill con
t*ui a tall rej»ort of the speeches and reeolu
rtf the various meeting's during anatver
ttwv week, there can be no necessity for my at
tempted detail thereof, though some of the in
cidents not hv them narrate*] may prove in
teresting to the north stir readers. 'htete
,mum hardly have lieen a more unpropittous
morning than tuesday the bth inst. and yet
broadway tabernacle was filled w iih a high
tv tespemble audience at the opening meet-;
mg of the american anti-slavery socie
tv the introductory remarks of mr. garri
>.m (president) and speeches of parker pills
burv, wendell phillq* and frederick doug
lass, were listened to and applauded in a most
gratifying tnannei. the subsequent meetings
at the minerva rooms were characterised by
ait that earnestness of matter and manner, and
freedom of debate st> peculiarly a feature of
the society, an exception (as the latter is,) to
all the organizations. ihe delegations from
various sections of the country, imparted and
received encouragement, to persevere in their
mission el redeeming the land trom slavery s
curse. some individuals not before identi
fied with the cause, came forward to partici-
i ate in the discussion of the most ultra plans,
ami the natuial impression? thus made were of
a most hopeful character. (inc evening ses
sion was held at hope chapel, up broadway
,n a neighborhood of the aristocracy, who
u-ere represented in good numbers at the
meeting. mr. garrison submitted a history of
the anti-slavery enterprize from its dark hour
in the present —the magnitude of the crime j
ui slavery, and hi? determination (god help-'
mg him) to abide at his post while life lasts.
frederick douglass rivetted close attention by
he* experience as an american slave,and on
l> work' d up opposition when he alluded to
zachary taylor’s slavery career, henry
i n s colonization scheme, and jhe proposi
ti. in of sending billies to the slaves. no one
however volunteered any defence of the would
<u the tutting president, but a young the
ologian mounted the rostrum in behalf of the
\merican church and the plan of supplying
the victims of slavery with the bible, stating
that while south, he had been permitted to
visit slave quarters and furnish bible instruc
tion. it was remarked, however, by mr. phil- j
i ps. anil not denied by the speaker, that lie
must have passed inspection in the slavehold-j
ei's parlor. the principal objection urged at
this and other meetings, was the impractica
bility of the scheme, and the absurdity of not
first securing ro the slave [kissession of him
self—that the bible and all else may j hen
safely lie added.
charles lenox kemond, during a train of
eloquent remarks alluded to his having voted
at ihe recent election for stephen c. phillips
as governor of massachusetts, (all other
names on the free soil ticket having been
erased by him,) his vote under the citeuin
jslancck was intended as a grateful expression
for the successful efforts put forth by him (mr.
phillips) in salem for the equal educational
privileges of colored children.
the vigilance committee meeting at shi
loh church was numerously attended, the
addresses were impressive, and a large col-j
lection was obtained for legitimate under-’
ground-railway purposes.
several meetings have been held under the;
auspices of the colored citizens, the result of
which it is fondly hoped may unite them in a
gpl»r»‘u 1 effort to aid the anti-slavery cause;!
though in combating our common enemy, sla
very, tbe active am) influential at limes differ
very materially in their modus operand r, as is
sometimes too evident when henry bibb,
charles lenox kemond, henry 11. garnet,
samuel k. ward and frederick douglass
meet in the arena of debate.
on friday afternoon and evening, samuel
k. ward and frederick douglass debated in
the minerva rooms the “constitutionality of
american slavery.” they were greeted by
an audience comprising much of the intelli
gent, refined and reformatory, both white and
colored. the disputants have won for them
selves and their respective positions numerous
eucortitims. the power of logic and i heloric,
blending with genuine wit, —“greek meeting
greek” preserved interest to a late hour, and
even then the audience like oliver twist,
asked for more “of w hat was really a mental
feast.” by mutual consent the question was
not submitted to vote, and i forliear at pres
ent, any elaborate notice of the argument pro
and con. the whole was regarded as a bril
liant finale to “anniversary week” in new
york w. n.
brooklyn, l. 1., may 15, 1k49.
frederick douglass :—i take my pen in j
hand to drop you a few hasty lines. the
hannibal lodge o. it. o. of o. f. (celebrated
their third anniversary on monday evening,
the utli lust, '['he speakers on that occasion
were messrs. john peterson, daniel j.i
elston, joseph t‘. holley and james.
fulls.
mr. peterson deliveied quit** an eloquent
address, in tlie course.of which he took occa
sion to eulogize messrs. garnet, ward,
bibb, and the slave lible movement; and hid
his audience beware of those professed re
ioiniers, who come in our midst, disturb our
public assemblies, and oppose giving the ta
ble to the slave! beware of such reform-,
era!*' this was greeted with some ap-i
piause.
mr. j. c. holley, alter making some re
marks appropriate to the occasion previous to
taking his a»*at, said—“ 1 would most icspeci
fully and deferentially suggest for the consid
eration ot brotheis, whether the stage, on an
odd fellow ’s anniversary occasion, is a pro
|*cr place lor the discussion of the various
questions that divide the opinions of men—
questions concerning w hich men may honest
ly differ i would draw tut narrow lines. i
know we have our garnet, ward and bibs;
but we also have our douglass and our
he mono. i bid them all go on in the cause
of humanity and liberty. and i trust that i
have none of that ambition, which, when
shielded belli mi the sanctity of an exclusive
meeting, urges one to attack the chaiacter and
impugn the motives of those who will not
have an opportunity to defend themselves be
fore the same audience. i submit these re
marks, in all kindness, fur consideration.”
the allusion to the names of doiglass and
kemond drew forth the rnoat rapturous ap
plause.
jp
'the course of mr. peterson oo (hit oeea
aon did appear to yn«r correspondent mom
dastardly.
to tay nothing of the uoratfeam of driv
elling sway st torn sad their opinions behind
their backs, and under com of an order of
arrangements the idea ot one brought up in
pampered ease, and lounging oo the couch uf
a salaried office, tutrmg to misrepresent, ma
lign, to question the sincerity sod impugn the
motives of those who hare feh the bed of
tyranny on their own necks; whose own souls
hare been pierced with the steel ot oppres
sion whose own backs bear record of slave
ry whose nearest and dealest relations are
now in the bouse of bondage; who are now
devoting tbeir lives in tbe cause of universal
fieedom—freedom of body, freedom uf speech,
freedom of mind who havp been beset by
mobs and pelted with all kioda of deadly and
filthy missiles who have transformed them
selves from chattels to men from physical to
intellectual men. the men to be
cautioned against; and those the men to cau
tion t header, ponder: ponder did i say? a
wayfarer, though a fool, may see may run
and read, that such extia caution and cheap
philanthropy is gratuitous.
those who oppose this movement of giving
the bible to the slave —who can possess noth
ing as a slave, and who, if tbe master objects
not, can be furnished it without this move
ment, can truly say—
we speak tbe truth, we will be heard,
tliough all creation crack;
we will not hate a single word,
or take a letter bark.
wc speak the truth, aod what care we
for hissing or for scorn,
whilst some faint gleaming we can eee
of freedom's coming morn’ 1
l«t liars fear, let cowards shrink,
i,ei traitors turn away;
whatever we have dared to think,
that dare we also sa\.
yours, for liberty and reform,
j. c. h.
new york, may bth, 1849.
frederick douglass: l listened with
lively interest to the addresses of mr. remond
and yourself last evening, at the abyssinia
church. they refreshed my memory of a
series of resolutions, which were introduced
by an humble individual to the last convention,
called and held in philadelphia some four, or
perhaps five, years ago, for the purpose ot
making some arrangements to elevate our
selves in the scale of society. but, alas!
the death of mr. paschal, and the want of
energy of the president appointed to carry
the resolutions into effect! the great big
minister of the great big church of philadel
phia checked the progress, and put a stop to
all the efforts contemplated for that good pur
pose. the plan, first of all, w3s to get the
pteachers interested in their own and all col
ored americans’ improvement. the interfer
ence of the ministers for rniprovemement was
objected to by themselves —that is, the minis
ter who officiated for them. [see the ele
vator,” published in philadelphia, just before
it stopped.]
by it the proposal was made that the city
of philadelphia be laid off in blocks or wards;
that each ward establish a society to admit
every man and woman, irresj»ective of com
plexion, who would pay one cent per week
into the treasury, until a sufficient amount was
raised, to be expended under judicious regu
lation to obtain the end in view—our liberty.
several ward societies were in operation,
some pamphlets were printed, ac. ac. but
some of the preachers erroneously labored
under the impression that the popular societies
detract from the influence of the church,
shorten their means of support, and give in
fluence to the*people, which they claim for
themselves. hence the whole matter fell
through. would some such plan succeed
better in new york?
a colored american.
the church and the theatre hand in j
hand.
the vile and unprincipled practice of!
etlablishing the negro pew in the mis-called’
christian churches of our land, has for years!
been without a rival.” especially in our city, j
the system was so mean, and the act so dis-
graceful on the part of the church, that the
more enlightened of our land disdained the;
act; and, though non-professors of chrisliani-:
ty, yet the feelings of humanity prompted'
them to better things. they looked upon this
pollution and desecration ot god’s sanctuary,
as unworthy of imitation, or even counte
nance. hence they were left alone without
any consolation, save that to be derived from
their midst.
but as misery likes company, they now (in
our city) have the gratification of knowing
that the theatre has come to their assistance,
thereby ridding them ot a poilion of the shame
and disgrace which hitherto exclusively be
longed to them; and have virtually acknowl
edged a partnership in crime—sharing a por
tion i f the contempt which uaturally attaches
itself to such a course. glorious consolation
to the church! the partnership alluded to
on the part of the theatre may be found in
their several advertisements. in our city it
reads thus: .4 portion of the upper boxes
have been furnished and set apart for families
of color
in this we too plainly see the moral de
pravity of mail. the theatre, this school of,
iniquity and scandal, whose corrupting ioflu
ence, as a canker, lay* bold upon the young
and thoughtless of our land, infusing, as it
were, into their very natures, the seeds of
misery and death, has dared, in connection
with its other vices, to adopt the scheme of
colonizing into a negro pew or box, any col
ored man who by chance may be silly enough
to be found visiting it. and the greatest
cause for regret in this matter is, that iheie;
are some so wilfully blinded, and so lost to
every interest of ibeir own, as to continue
visiting those haunts of wickedness, amid the
proscription and abuse continually heaped up
on them. and to my nuod it is a settled
principle that so long as we as colored people
continue to disgrace ourselves by submitting
to such vile abuse, just so long will the heel
of prejudice bear hard upon our necks. and
for us to undertake to repel or ward off the
brutal assaults of our oppressors by day,
while at night we tamely subnut ourselves to
be made the willing subjects of tbeir ridicule,
is worse than hypocrisy.”
but, if we would be men, let us dmeurd
oppressioqjuf every kind, and especially that
kind which find* its hone in such dens of pol
\-7 jt w
luboo aa theotrm generally are. “it it enow
enough for at to he found guilty ef vmtiitg
such places, without tbe additional dfofrace
of submitting ourselves to he made the ob
jects of their derision.”
kaket, let us avoid attending such places
altogether. there »no aeuut! good to be
derived float them; that doors are hot tbe
entrance to seenee of dnsipetioa tad vice,
while their tendencies ere demoralising end
base. in view of this then let every colored
men io the country turn with disgust from
such pieces, sod leave them with their eaties
end negro boxes to become ludicrous at their
own expense. george weir, je.
birralo, may 14, 1849.
front oar owe correspondent.
london, 90th april, 1849.
in the lengthened interval that hat elapsed
since i lest wrote, so many events have oc
curred that 1 can attempt to do no more than
give you a brief summary of them. at the
conclusion of the armistice with austria,
charles albert, kiog of sardinia, re-open
ed the war; and, with, a polish general of
most unpronounceable name—to wit: cbbza
nowski —in command of the anny, commenced
hostilities. in less than forty-eight hours
from the time of doing so, the old austrian
marshal, radetzky, had effected an undis
puted passage of the frontier river, the ta
etno; had gained a decisive victory at novara,
in which the personal courage of the kiog
and his sons at the head of the piedmontese,
wad quite insufficient to stimulate the coward
ly hordes from lombardy beyond the passive
spectatorship of a fight, in which the liberty
of their own conntry depended; and was final
ly in full inarch on the capital. all hope
withered, charles albert turned and fled—
having first abdicated in favor of his son, the
duke of savoy, now victor emmanuel.
he is now in france. the young king lost
no time in making terms with the austrians,
who were very reasonable, and have behaved,
on the whole, very well. he is to pay them
a good round contribution, reduce his army,
and just be quiet; and they leave him his do
minions intact, and evacuate them speedily.
with these terms, however, the radical party
at genoa are so dissatisfied that they have
raised a revolt, and the young king is engaged
in bombarding the superb city into submis
sion.
the news from hungary is very uncertain;
it is, however, pretty evident that the cause
of the magyars is not so desperate as some
time since it appeared to be.
the resumption of hostilities between den
mark and germany has been signalized by a
terrible catastrophe. in an attack upon some
small shore batteries, mounting very few* guns,
a danish line of battle ship ran agronnd,
when the germans so mercilessly fired at the
helplessly stranded leviathan that she was
compelled to strike, as was also a frigate
attempting to assist her. when, however,
she had surrendered, all was not over, for,
from some unexplained cause, the magazine
exploded and launched the two hundred men
aboard of her into eternity. the germans
are exulting over the affair as a national tri
umph, while, on the other hand, the danes
lament it as a cruel misfortune, the memory
of which they would fain bury in the fame of
some future exploit. on both sides the war
is carried on with the greatest bitterness an
excited national feeling always induces.
napoleon bonaparte, son of jerome,
has been appointed ambassador of the french
republic to madrid, and been received there
with the most distinguished consideration.
a good deal of merriment has been excited
on this side of the channel, at the spectacle of
some five hundred of our countrymen who,
taking advantage of a cheap trip proposed du
ring the easter holidays, started for paris,
without being accredited or deputed in any
way to return the visit the national guard,
some lime since, paid to this country. the
exceedingly kindly feeling displayed by the
french, and their profuse hospitality, have
induced some regret that means had not been
i taken that the expedition should have consist
ed of a somewhat fairer sample of english
men than those who actually constituted it.
nothing could have been kinder or more
j graceful than the attention the french lavish
(ed on the strangers. at a great assembly
given by the prefect of the seine, “god
save the queen was played, and was follow
ed by “rule britannia.” even you yan
kees, on a similar occasion, could not have
stretched your complaisance so far.
the mail from india brings the intelligence
that lord gough has at length gained a com
plete and decisive victory over the sikhs on
the field of goojerat, capturing 53 pieces of
cannon out of 60. very tiifling loss was sus
tained on our side. the enemy were negoti
ating, and would probably make an almost
unconditional surrender.
jenny lind, the almost peerless vocalist of
the age, is at length really married, and feli
citations on the event are going the round ol
all the papers. her husband is said to be a
l distant relative of the bishop of norwich,
and in this may be seetvthe clue to a circnm
stance which caused no little upstir at the
time it occurred —the appropriation by his
lordship uf a portion of tbe palace at norwich
for the reception of the fair singer, when on a
professional visit to that city.
the weather here has been tbe most extra
ordinary kuown for many years. we have
had a succession of hard frosts, and some of
the midland counties are covered deeply with
the snow which has been falling, with but
slight intermissions, for the last three day*.'
all the fruit in bloom is do ikmbt destroyed.
serious apprehensions are beginning to be en
(tenanted for many other crops. s. p. q. r.
singular amit.—mr. gallot, a respec
table dry goods merchant at new orleans,
himself worth some $85,000, married mias
eliae clement, who arrived from fraooe with
her mother and sister some three or four
months since, it was reported that they
brought 50,000 franca in gold, and had depos
ited it with mr. hagan, whose note for
$lo,ooo they exhibited. the morning of the
marriage the bride gave her husband a note
on demand for $lo,ooo, purporting to he
signed by a. mkhond which he deposited
with a broker for collection, directing a re
mittance of the proceeds to him at new york,
and then started on his bridal tour. both
notes were forgeries, and all the money deal
ings mr. hagan ever had with mas clement
was to give her $5 to get rid of her taapoi tu
nny for pecuniary sssiaince. this a alto
gether the wont marrying for money scrape
on record.
to make a man ooigms in the legislature
of south carolina, be must owa 600 acres ef
land and 10 negrou.
tire correspondent of tbe drily new* dew
mbos a rail he bad paid to the many womß,
dark, damp dungeons oi the iaquiutraw. the
building is out of tbe bealoo track, bem, i.
*o*t of col de sac behind st. peter's. the
dungeons, and all tbeir apparatus, are to he
thrown open to tbe inspection of tbe public,
•fid will furnish a sight not likely to recom
mend priestly rale to tbe people. the corren
poodeot says.—
tbe officer in charge led me down to where
tbe men were digging in tbe vaults below;
they had cleared a downward flight of steps,
which was choked op with old rubbish, and
bad come to a senes of dungeons under tbe
vaults deeper still, and which immediately
brought to mind prisions of tbe doge under
urn canal of tbe bridge of sighs at venice,
only that here there was a surprising hor
ror.
1 aaw imbedded in old masonry, uiwymmet
ijcalljr arranged, fire skeletons in various re
cesses, aad the clearance had only just begun;
the period of their insertion in this spot most
have been more than a century and a half.
from another vault full of skulls and scattered
human remains there was a ahatt about four
feet square ascending perpendicularly to tbe
first floor of tbe building, and coding in a pas
sage of the hall of the chancery, where a trap
door lay between the tribunal aod the way in
to a suite of rooms destined for one of the offi
cials. the object of this shaft could admit of
bat one surmise. the ground of the vault
was made up of decayed animal matter, a
lump of which held imbedded in it a long silk
en lock of hair, as i found by personal exami
nation as it was shovelled up from below.
but that is not all:—there are two large sub
terranean lime kilns, if i may so call them,
shaped like a beehive io masonary, filled with
layers of calcined bones, forming the substrat
um of two other chambers on ihe ground floor
in the immediate vicinity of the very mysteri
ous shaft above mentioned. (it must be re
membered that of late the power of the holy
inquisition, even in rome, was greatly fallen
from its former high estate).
the underground lake on the central
railroad. —a short distance beyond niles,
on the central railroad, is this underground
lake, of which we gave a description at the
time the filling was going on. travellers in
passing over the embankment, since the road
has been finished to new buffalo, are gener
ally anxious to take a look at the singular
place, and by tbe more timid and supersti
tious some fears are entertained that all is not
yet safe, and another “cave in” may take
place. vve crossed the spot last week, and,
from appearance, should judge that the em
bankment would settle but very little here
after. since the heavy t rail lias been laid
down, immense heavy trains of freight and
passenger cars have passed over the road, and
the ground at this point, about the centre of
the lake, has settled about two feet. the
earth, for a great distance around, retains ev
idences of the convulsions caused by the sink
ing of the embankment. the ground, orcrust
is heaved up and cracked open in every di
rection, and in some places the cracks are
over eight feet wide. the company have
expended a large sum of money in carrying
out the original design of crossing at this
point, the exact amount of which it is impos
sible to arrive at, but it is probable $50,000.
—detroit free press.
a doomed city. —amongst the many
events of the past week of a sad interest, not
the least important is the frightful news
from new orleans of the crevassees or breach
es made in the levee, by the uprising of the
mississippi river. telegraphic news from
baltimore, of the 18th of may, is of a discour
aging character, it being asserted that all ef
forts were unavailing to stop the torrents of
water pouring into the city. the dry
ades street market is surrounded by water, al
so bach us, benton, white and hercules
streets are covered, and the water was ap-
6 reaching the back streams of the layfayette.
luch interest is felt for further intelligence
from new orleans.
a country election forty years since.
—one of burdett’s contests for middlesex
coßt him no less than 100,000, said to be
the entire foitune of his wife, miss coutts.
1 forget whether it was his contest with-main
waring, or subsequently with mellish. in the
last instance he was beaten, being returned
afterwards for westminster. it is difficult to
believe the tumult of the old westminster
elections, yet those of london and westmins
ter were pure to what they were in the count
ry. 1 knew a baronet who returned five mem
bers besides himself, i knew that baronet to
remain plying a voter with wine himself for
twenty-four hours previously to the man be
ing taken up drunk to the hustings. i knew
a case in a borough where there were only 25
corporation voters, equally divided, save the
casting vote, between two peers. the sum
of 10,000 was offered for the casting vote
by one of those peers, and singular to say,
refused by a shopkeeper alderman, not at all
too opulent. so much for its having been a
breach of privilege for peers to interfere in
elections! in the present case one of the
peers secured both members. well,” said
1, that was nobly done.” yes, and his
lordship never forgot the obligation. look at
his sons—two pushed up in the navy, one in
the customs, and another in the army such
was the system in those days. that boiough,
which then had only 25 corporation voters,
has now 700 household voters, among 10,000
inhabitants. this is a change for the better.
—^reminiscences of a literary man in jer~.
raid's weekly news.
the human form. persons with an
ample chest (says the boston olive branch)
always, barring accidents, live longer than
those with narrow chests. they never die
with consumption, the most fatal disease of
our land but persons with contracted chests
furnish the whole of the vast multitude who
perish by that insidious but fatal disease.
and yet with this medical fact staring them
in the face, a large number of the fairer por
tion of our race prepare themselves to die ol
consumption, by the foolish practice ot tight
lacing. this does not add to their beauty,
but makes them actually deformed but the
tyrant, fashion, urges them on to their ruin.
we copy from morris and willis’ home
journal:
size of the female waist.—women
ought to measure twenty-seven to twenty-nine
inches around the waist, but most females do
not permit themselves to grow beyond twen
ty-four. thousands are laced to twenty-one—
some of them less than twenty; and thns by
whalebone, wood and steel, the waist is re
duced to half its proper arie.”
a p ocular preacher.— a short time ago,
one of the self elected class of divines, who
are not in common excessively college bred,
was holding forth to his .congregation upon a
subject well calculated to arouse the attention
of incorrigible hearts. after waring away
with th» subject, uaul h# had rendered pan
demonium as hat a* vesuvius, and at black as
milton’s satan, be founded a sublime perora
tion with the following aemom* —‘‘now,
hearken, ye sinners! i tell ye that yetl all go
lob l, assure as i’ll eaich that fly on the
bible;” at the same ume muking a determin
ed sweep with lui palm acrusn ihs mcred
page, to capture the lihsmimr tease*, lie
then proceeded to open h» eknehad fiat, fing
er. after finger, uoul the last digit was re
leased, butbeliolj,the poot iyhad eluded his
grasp. looking m«s« e]fohiim-
turn'd him'—there’,
a chance for you yet ye sinful ruffians.
elizabeth gurney, afterwards ms. fry,  bora ok the slat of may, 1780,
«a« the third daughter of john gurney
of earlham, in norfolk, a member o
the society of friet»d*. she lost hei
maternal parent, a woman of grew
worth and ability, when only twelv*
years of age. tne family then consist
cd of eleven children, the eldest o
whom was only seventeen. her feel
ings of benevolence towards her suffer
mg fellow creatures appear to bav«
been drawn out in very early childhood
by her being* the companion of hei
mother in her visits to the cottages o
their poor noighbora. in other res
pects there was nothing striking in hei
character excepting strong affectioo
which was particularly called forth to
wards her parent#, and brother# ant
sisters when about aeventeen sh<
was seriously impressed with the im
portance of religion, and both hei
,udginent and conscience subsequent
|y decided in favor of the society t<
which her family belonged, and o
which she afterwards became such at
ornament.
she was now enabled to gratify hei
feelings of benevolence by becoming
her father’s almoner, and she was nevei
sparing of her own personal sacrifices
both of time and property, for the bene
fit of others. though her own educa
tion was rather deficient, owing t<
some want of application in herself, anti
partly from her general delicate stau
of health, yet even at this early perioc
of her life she felt the necessity of giv
ing instruction to the humbler classes,
as a means of improving their moral
condition. to carry out this idea, sht
taught the poor children in the neigh
borhood; and in a short time her school,
which was commenced with one little
boy, increased to above seventy schol
ars, and was then held in a vacarj
laundry attached to their house. tin
first mention we have of her sympalhie?
being drawn out by the moral degrada
tion of her specie-, was while on atom
through part of wales and the south o
england, in company with her fathei
and six sisters. when at plymouth
(1798) they visited the dock yards; ant
she notes in her diary:—“my mind fel
deeply hurt on account of the poor sai
lors and women, of whom 1 have seen i
sad number, and longed to do then
good, to try one day to make them sen
sible of that evil state they appear to bi
in.”
on the 19th of august, 1800, eliza
beth gurney was united to mr. josepl
fry, who was then a junior partner in t
large m rcautile establishment and sht
and her husband took up their abode ai
st. mildred’s court, city. during
their residence in this place, their fivt
eldest children were born; and notwith
standing the duties of her family, ant
the delicate state of her own health,sht
devoted much time to visiting tin
abodes of want and mi.ipry. her re
moval to plashet, in 1809, was not onl)
more congenial to her feelings, bj
gratifying her natural love of the coun-
i try, but opened frc«b f .r her be
nevolence. thec..-... 0 v. occasion
ed by the death of her husband’s father
whose country seat it had previouslj
been. she established a school in tin
neighborhood and was looked up to hj
the poor around as the lady bounlifu
of the place. even the gipsies, who, a
bout the time of fairlop fair, were ii
the habit of pitching their tents nea
her house, came under her kind notice
and the pariahs of s »ciety heard them
selves—many perhaps for the first titm
—addressed by fair and gentle lips ii
terms of sisterly sympathy.
but we must now follow her to tin
principal sphere of her philanthropy—
the loathsome and neglected cells o
prism; where her sweet voice wai
heaid whispering to the most abaud
onedofhersex of a return to virtui
and happiness. in 1813, several mein
bers ot the society of friends visit<*<
newgate, to see some felons unde
sentence of death. —these geutlemei
were on terms of intimacy with mrs
fry, and they gave h -r such a sad ac
count ol the state of the women con
fined there, that she, accompanied by i
female friend, anna buxton, enterei
this abode of misery and crime, for th<
purpose of affording warm clothing ti
me wretched inmates. owing to il
health and domestic trials, she did no
renew her visits for three or four years
but during that time she was learning
in the school of affliction to sympathisi
even more truly with the suffering o
others. her next efforts were mad«
in 1817, when she formed a school foi
the children of the prisoners and th<
young criminal.
in a letter to her eldest sister, shi
expressed (he interest she took in tin
cause of these poor outcasts—“mj
heart, and mind, and time,” she says
•‘are very much engaged in vartoui
ways. newgate is a principle object
and i thin’t until 1 make some attemp
at amendment in the plans for the wo
men, 1 a iad not feel easy; but if sue)
efforts should prove unsuccessful, j
hink that 1 should then have tried ft
lo my duty, and be easy.” in the
spring of this year an association wa>
mnsequently formed for the “improve
ment of the female prisoners in new
,ate.” the object of this society we
o provide clothing, employment, anc
nstruction for the women. they wen
and for their work and received pan
of iheir money immediately, that the)
might procure any little comfort the)
it-cded; the rest was placed in tlu
lands of the committee, as a reserv e
for future use. this plan was found
.lighly beneficial, by occupying fht
une which had before been spent in
'ambling, drinking and quarrelling.
before these steps were taken, how
ever, the city authorities were consult
ai. they expressed their appmbetioii
j. the plans, but looked upon their re
alization as hopeless, thinking that the
p isoners would never be brought tt
sibtnit to the restraints which such
i change must impose upon them. bui
ur*. fry collected the women together;
tud alter having pointed out to them
he advantage# of industry and sobriety.
ind the pleasures of conscious recti
ude—at the same tune contrasting thu
pictoie with their own direful expert-
ence of the misery of rice—die told
then that the ladies of tbi cswauktee
bad not come to rni—j>n| their obedi
ence, bet bed loft their homes and
families to entreat them for tbeir good.
she then asked if they wore dot willing
u act ia concert with them,* assuring
them (let not a rale should be made
without tbeir entire and united concur
rence. each rule waa then pot sepa
rately to the vote, and such was the
effect of gentleness and reason, even
upon minds so untrectable, that they
were all uaanunotteiy carried.
hitherto, a riot and confusion bad
occured on the occasion of removing
the female convicts from nesrgate in
open wagons. the common sense oi
mrs. fry revolted at this indecent ex
hibition, and she suggested that the re
moval should take place privately by
means of hackney coaches. the gov
ernors having acceded to the proposal,
the experiment was aried and proved
perfectly successful. when on hoard,
mrs. fry sod the isdies of her party
examined in o the accommodation, and
made many wise arrangements for the
voyage; among others, materials lor
work were provided, which was to be
sold for the benefit of the convicts on
reaching the place of their destination.
this was of more essential service ui
them than she waa then aware of, foi
she afterwards learned from the chap
lain of the colony at new south wales
that there was at that time no asylum
provided for them on their arrival. a
building has siace then been erected,
and many proper arrangements made
for the preservation of the morals ol
these unhappy beings.
in august 1818, mrs. fry journeyed
in the north of england and scotland,
accompanied by her brother, mr
joseph j, gurney. they made a close
examination into the state of the prison!
on their route, and mr. gurney pub
lished an account of these investiga
tions, and laid before the magistrates
at the various places a statement ol
facts, pointing out to them modes of im
provement, which were iu roost instan
ces adopted. two years after, mrs,
fry, took another journey into the
north, and in many places was able tc
form committees, of ladies to visit the
female prisoners in their own count)
jails. “the british ladies’, societ)
for promoting the reformation of fe
male prisoners” was instituted soot
after. its object was to unite these
branch societies in one body, that there
might be systematic effort in the gooc
work. this association has provec
highly beneficial in many ways by es
tablishing houses of shelter for dis
charged prisoners who had no homes,
aud affording relief, part in the shape
of a loan, and part as a gift, to such a:
were willing to earn an honest living
by their own exertions: also by found
ing schools ol* discipline for female va
grants and juvenile offenders, &.c., &c
—ln the summer of 18*24, in conse
quence of ill-health mrs. fry made i
»tay of several months at brighton
while here she was much interested it
the state of the poor around—both thai
of the numerous beggars and the resi
dent poor in the neighborhood. she
had, a short time before,, consulted
with dr. chalmers on the best method
of assisting this class, and was there
fore in some measure acquainted wit i
his views: she now directed her atten
tion to the subject, and “district-visit
ing societies” were in consequence sci
on foot, to examine into and relieve rea
cases of want.
her illness was attended by frequent
attacks of faintness in the early morn
ing, and she was at such times carriec
to an open window for the influence o:
the fresh breezes. the coast was
visible from her chamber, and as she
sat and watched the first gray streak?
of dawn over the foaming ocean, oi
gazed on the dreary cliffs before., her,
only one living object was present tc
her view. this was the coast guarc
who paced with measured step the lone
ly beach.—her thoughtful and ever
active benevolence suggested means ol
benefiting these men, who were in a
great measure shut out from intercourse
with their follow-creatures. one day,
when passing near one of the stations,
she oidered her coachmen to stop, that
she might make inquires into their
general condition. the man addressed,
however, politely told her that he wa*
not allowed to hold communications
with any one whilst on duty. fearing
that this short colloquy might therefore
bring hin into trouble, she gave him
her card, telling him to present it tn
his commanding officer. a few days
after the lieutenant in command called
upon her, and offered to answer any
inquires. he informed her that the
i coast guard were subject to many dan
gers and privations, being exposed to
all weathers, as well as to the violence
of the smugglers.
she at once provided those in the vi
cinity with bibles, and afterwards made
strenuous effoits to obtain libraries fru
the use of all the men thus employed.
she saw that the loneliness of their sit
uation, and the absence of proper sub
jects for thought, together with theii
contact with lawless smugglers, must
of necessity pruduce idle habits and
fierce manners; and that, to prevent
this moral evil, it was requisite to pro
vide wholsome food for the wind. in con
sequence of her representations, a com
mittee was formed for this object, and
by means of a liberal grant from the
government, and various subscriptions,
upwards of 51,000 persons were sup
plied with religious and instructive
books; 498 libraries were established
for the stations on ahore, containing
25,806 volumes; 74 also for districts,
comprising 1*2,880 volumes: 48 others
for cruisersjcomposed of 1767 volumes,
beside 5357 numbers of pamphlets,
and 6424 school books for the use of the
children of the crews; making a total of
52,466 volumes.
in 1828, a house of business in
arbieii mr. fry was concerned foiled.
it was not the one which that gentle
man personally conducted in st. mil
dreds court, but h occasioned a loss
so serious to him, as to altogether
change the circumstances of his family.
they were now obliged to give up
pleasant house, and all the luxuries ot
affluence, and remove, after a abort
stay in london, to a comparatively
humble dwelling in the vtcsofcy of their
late abode. the chief causa of regret
to f mu the foet of her
to the poor around, who bad long looked
up to her aa their friend, and being
obliged to withdraw her support from
her school. much •sympathy was ex
pressed in this hour of trial by those
who had united with her in her labor*
of lore, and man/ gratpfjring testimoni
als of esteem and affection were pre
sented. notwithstanding the diminish
ed resources of this remarkable wo
man, she continued to devote her time
to the cause so near her heart. in com
pany with one or other of her brothers,
she made fresh lours in scotland, and
afterwards extended these journeys in
to several parts of the continent, fheir
object was not only inspect the pris
ons, hut also the lunatic asylums, na
tional schools, and hospitals, which
were equal/ in need of improvement
sod a vast amount of good resulted
from their labors.
in 1835, .vrt. fry accompanied her
husband on a journey into the south of
england; and, as usual, it fund-bed
objects of interest for that strangely ac
tive mind, which found “wniioiu in
stones and good in every thing.” when
passing over salisbury plain she no
ticed the monotonous life led by the
numerous shepherds, and the thought
suggested itself that the libraries w. uld
be equally useful to them as to the const
guards. she therefore stopped a short
tune at amesbury, in order to form a
library there; and the following letter,
which was written a few months alter
by the person who had the charge ol
the books will show the success of the
plan. “forty five books are in con
stant circulation, with the additional
magazines. more than 50 poor people
read them with attention, return them
with thanks, nnd desire the loan ol
more, frequently observing, they think
it a very kind thing indeed that they
should be furnished with so many good
books, free of all cost, so entertaining
and instructive long winter even
ings.”
our limits will not allow of our enter
ing into details respecting these jour
neys; but mrs. fry and her brothers
made personal appeals to the soveriegns
of england, france, holland, belgium,
denmark, prussia, hanover, and
others, on behalf of suffering humamiy
nor did they forget the claims of the
poor slave, but remonstrated with those
exalted individuals on their countenanc
ing the slave trade in their colonies.
they were received with courtesy, and
many of their suggestions ad tpted.
none could listen to mrs. fry’s simple
eloquence, bold in its truthfulness, yet
breathing the very soul of love, with
out being touched by it. the monarch
felt that the beau y of sincerity surpas
sed the homage of the courtier; and
the hardened heart of the criminal melt
ed under trie genial influence o( her
nature and felt the lovliuess of virtue.
that she experienced no self-exaltation
font the universal respect wl.ieh was
shown her, is obvious from many pas
sages in her diary. at one time she
says—‘l have fears for niyselfin visit
ing palaces rating than prisons, and
going after the rich rather than the
poor, lest my eyes should become blind
ed, oh should fall away in anything
from the simple, pure standard of trutii
and righteousness.’
fatigue of body and mind had long
been weakening her health, and in julj
1843 her friends became ala m d.
this illness continued, with short inter
vals of amendment, until october 1815,
i when her earthly career ended. ah
that affection could devise was done for
tipr; she was taken from one watering
place to another; hut nature was ex
hausted. in her sixty-sixth year slue
r breathed her last at ramsgate, deeply
lamented not only hy all who were
bound to her by the ties of kindred, l>ut
1 by thousands whom her philanthropy
had assisted, and her virtues had at
tached to her. when estimating the
success of her labors, something must
1 be attributed to the general spirit ol
improvement of the age; yet su.elj
inueh praise is due to those individuals
who nobly pioneer the way. at the
time that mrs. fty entered this field ot
labor, the prisons were in a lamentable
state. varioas causes had operated to
destroy the good which howard had
labored to effect, and the acts of parlia
ment which were passed in consequence
of his exertions had become a dead
letter. the grout d had therefore, as
it were, to be trodden afn sh, and lor
this work mrs. fry was eminently
qualified. her warm,'loving heart em
braced the whole human tamily; but
her chief object was to stretch forth the
hand of encouragement to those of her
own sex who had sunk in vice and
misery, and to lead them to virtue and
happiness.
indian courtship. —an educated in
dian chief, known as ka-ge-gah-bowb,
or geotge copway, the present head
of the ojibwa tribe, desciibes ihe mar
riage ceremony of the chippewas as
follows: he said that there was no
courtship done by the young people;
that it was done l>y the patents before
hand, and it often came rather against
the grain of the young people. when
the day came, the ceremony was per
formed by the chief, consisting ofu lec
ture to the young couple, aud a feast,
after which they were considered a*
tt.an and wife. but among the tribes
of the west, there are many very cu
rious ceremonies connected with the
courtship and marriage. one way ot
getting a wife was as follow*: when
a young indian fell in love with any ol
the daughters of the village, he would
go and sit down within a few yards 01
her, keeping a strict silence all the
while; in a few moments he would g«-t
up and go away, this be repeated six
or seven times coming nearer to her
every lime. at last he comes and sit*
by her side, if she makes no move
ment of displeasure then he has hopes
he sits by her several times in this man
ner, and at last pops the question b)
putting his band un her baud, and she
accepts him by putting her hand ovet
the two. all this time be take* car*
not to say a word, and she likewise;
but after tbe question t* poped, then tht
“words of honey” «re applied, ant
they soon beenn.e man and wife.
the depth of the ocean - the greatest depth ever reached by sounding was in the atlantic, 600 miles west of st. helena, where sir james rice found found no bottom with a fathom line of six miles and a quarter in length. 
