From the New York Tribune.
SLAVERY AND FREEDOM.
The Speech of Gov. Seward,
which we publish at length, its indispu
tably one of the ablest and most con
clusive yet delivered in the Senate up
on the Compromise Bill. The com
pactness of its reasoning, the breadth
of its scope, the statesmanlike clearness
and profundity of its views, and the
strength and felicity of its language
alike commend it to public attention and
render it fully woriliy the reputation
and position of its author. It will be
read with approval and admiration by
all liberal and thoughtful men, and
will be remembered after the contro
versy which has occasioned it has pass
ed away and is forgotten.
Mr. Seward’s Speech ou the Compro
mise Bill.
In Senate, Tuesday, July 2. —The
Compiomise Bill being under consid
eration, Mr. Seward having obtained
the floor, spoke as follows:
Mr. President —If an alieg in our
land should chance to enter here dur
ing these high debates, he would ask
whether California was a stranger and
an enemy, or an unhidden and unwel
come intruder, or a fugitive, powerless
and portionless, and therefore importu
nate, or an oppressor and scourge of
mankind and therefore hateful and
dangerous. We should be obliged to
answer. No! California yielded to per
suasion rather than to conquest. She
has renounced her lineage, language
and ancieit loyalty. She has brought
us to the banks of streams which flow
over precious sands, and at the base
of mountains which yield massive gold.
She delivers into our hand the key that
unlocks the long coveted treasures of
the Eastern world. California refuses
only to let us buy and sell each other
within her domain, so rich in all the
elements of legitimate commerce.
She invites us to forego an unjust, in
jurious and inglorious dominion over a
caste, and to extend the sway of peace,
of arts and of freedom over nations be
yond the seas still slumbering under
the mingled reign of barbarian super
stition and unalleviated despotism.
The very head and front of her offend
ing hath this extent.
The President of the United States
recommends, nevertheless, that Cali
fornia shall be admitted unconditionally
wltUe a Committee of (he Senate insists
on conditions.
I prefer the President’s suggestion;
but not merely because it is his, al
though I truly honor his patriotism and
fully confide in his wisdom. Nor do 1
prefer his suggestion out of disrespect
to the Statesmen by whom it is oppo
sed. My veneration for them has been
abundantly manifested heretofore, and
Meeds no display of protestations now
We are in a frarnB of things disjointed,
and in the confusion resulting from a
severance of parties and new conjunc
tion of Statesmen, each of us is
obliged to rely on the guidance of his
own judgment and conscience.
I submit, Sir, that the conditions
are unreasonable, injurious, and op
pressive in regard to California. So
far a*? they are found in the bill before
us, they are. Ist. The establishment
of a Territorial Government in New-
Mexico, silent concerning Slavery:
2d, The establishment of a like Gov
ernment in Washington: 3d, Com
promise of a border dispute between
New Mexico and Texas. The gar
ment of Compromise thus quilted of
various fabrics with artistic skill is in
geniously pieced out with collateral
conditions in a Report of two other
bills concerning Slavery in the Dis
trict of Columbia, the recapture of fu
gitive slaves, and other national inter
ests or pretentions of Slavery.
It is not contended that California
needs aid from these conditions, nor
that they can give it. California is
taxed for superfluous power to draw
the dependent measures into port,
which otherwise would founder and be
lost. This forced condition, therefore,
hinders and tends to defeat the admis
sion of California.
Why is California subjected to this
pnibiyMMß* ut 1 Dow she come with-
VOlfc 111. NO. 30.
out right? She has a.Treaty. Ia thal
Treaty denied or questioned? No? il
it is unanimously affirmed.
forma abide delay? No! her
lous condition not only appeals 10 out
justice, but touches the very virtue oi
compassion within ns. Why, then,
should California be kept waiting
winter we make u eiretm throughout
the entire orbit of Slavery California
neither brought the States into confed
eration, nor constructed the Constitu
tion—she neither planted Slavery in
the Slave States, nor uprooted it in the
Free States. She is not found by the
side of Texas invading New Mexico,
nor allied with New Mexico in resisting
Texas.
She is guiltless equally of buying
and selling, of holding and emancipa
ting, of reclaiming and of harboring
slaves anywhere. She has neither vote
nor speech here nor elsewhere where
this angry strife can be composed.
She hns severed at a blow and forever,
the loose political connection the only
connection she ever had with Utah and
New Mexico. The slave States indeed
insist on a right to colonize new terri
tories with a caste. But all agree that
the community in any such territory
may establish a Constitution prohibit
ing caste. California, already coloni
zed, has done this already, and her
maturity is not well questioned, al
though it has been as rapid and as be
wildering as the presentation of a mid
summer night’s dream. There is,
therefore, neither community nor con
nection nor even congruity between
the admission of California and the
conditions demanded. It is binding
Eros to Antcros, confiding youth to
querulous and wrangling age, the
struggling hind to ravening hounds.
We were told long ago that Califor
nia would take time by yielding to this
most unjust combination. We have
seen the error of that hope. We are
making the overland journey of 7,000
miles between the Pillars of Hercules,
when we might have crossed the Straits
of Gibraltar on a smooth sea in six
hours.
We were told that a minority in
another part of the Legislature might
prevent the admission of California,
and even bring the South to a dead
stand. But (it must work in its own
democratic and constitutional way, or
must cease to work at all. No one
nor more of the States can assume the
responsibility of arresting the Govern
ment by faction. Optimis auspicis qui
quae pro republica, quae contram uni
publican contra auspicia feed.
I submit now that the conditions de
manded are equally unreasonable, in
jurious and oppressive in regard to the
other parties affected by the combina
tion, viz: Texas, New Mexico, Utah
and the District of Columbia.
Each of these parties ought to be re
garded as asking only a just award,
and Congress is to be deemed ready
to make a just one and no other.
Such an award can he made only by
bestowing a distinct and separate con
sideration on each claim The same
principle of dialectic Philosophy which
forbids multifariousness of issues, and
confusion of parties in the administra
tion of justice, condemns incongruous
combinations in legislation.
The bill before us seems adapted to
enable Senators to speak on one side
and to vote on the other; to comply
with instructions and to evade them;
to vote for the line of 36 o 30m. and to
vote against it; to support the Wilmot
Proviso, and yet to defeat its applica
tion to the only territories open to its
introduction. I solicit—if stronger
language were courteous, I might de
mand—from the majority here, a sub
division of the bill, to enable me to vote
effectually for what I approve, without
voting equally for what my own judg
ment, concurring with instructions,
condemns, and thus to place myself
where I should invite all others no
place themselves, under exact and full
responsibility to their States and to the
People.
While I leave the interests of Texas
in the care of her honorable and excel
lent Senators, I must be allowed to
think that their consent to this bill be
trays a want of confidence in her claims
or in the justice of Congress. A just
claim ought not to need an unjust com
bination. Those who assume that
Texas has a valid title to all of New
Mexico east of the Rio Grande, as high
as the 42d parallel, will necessarily re
gard that State as surrendering, for a
pecuniary equivalent, an evtensive re
gion effectively secured to Slavery, to
the equivocations of this Compromise.
Those, on the contrary, who regard the
pretensions of Texas in New Mexico
as groundless, will as certainly protest
against the surrender of 70,000 square
miles of soil pregnant with liberty to
the hazards of this adjustment. Both
of these parties, I think, must agree
that the United States ought not to pay
Texas the equivalent unless her title
is good, then the United States have
no constitutional power to buy her ter
ritory. If they may buy a part of Tex
as for purposes not defined in the Con
stitution, they may buyjhe whole. If
they may buy the territory of a
Slave State to make it Free, that may
equally buy the soil of a Free State to
sterilize with Slavery. If it be replied
that the title is in dispute, then-the
transaction changes character. The
equivalent is paid for peace, and Tex
as is not yet lifted up so high, nor the
United States brought down se low, as
to obtain my consent to so humiliating
a traffic.
I have heretofore said that I could
vote to pay the debt of Texas on the
ground that the repudiation of it by the
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR;
United States in the agreement of An
nexation was fraudulent. But Texas
seems to prefer that we should buy do<
main and dominion from her rather that
pay her debts. She must be content,
therefore, to satisfy us concerning the
cardinal points in the bargain, viz:
First: The reasonableness of tin
amount Jo be paid*.
Secondly. The value of the equivalent
we are to receive.
Thirdly: The title of the vendor.
Fourthly: The use to which the ter
ritory it to be applied.
First. How much are we to pay
The sum is set down in blank, and the
blank kept open. The host Achilles
keeps thicket here. A philosopher re
plied to a man who ask leave to see
what he carried under his cloak “I
carry it there that you may not see it.”
Well, we are obliged to assume that
Texas is to be paid more than her
claim is worth, because she will not
trust to a distinct and independent ne
gotiation. The payment is a condition
ot the admission of California and thus
we see California, the desire of the na
tion and the envy of the world, redu
ced by the Senate of the United States
to the humiliation of chaffering with
money-changers and stock-jobbers,
continually baiting her offerrwith rich
er rewards to obtain her admission into
the Union.
The extent and value of the acquisi
tion are equally unsatisfactory. When
the question is on the sum to be paid,
Texas owns nearly all New Mexico;
but when it comes on the domain to be
obtained, it turns out that we are to
cede to Texas apart of that province
to save the re9t. Surely if we concede
to Texas the admiration her represen
tatives, require, they must admit that
she knows how to coin our admiration
into gold.
The TiTLE.-r-It is beyond dispute
that the territory which Texas offers
was from time immemorial an integral
part of New Mexico, and that not an
acre of it ever was in the possession of
Texas. Jt is equally clear that the
United States found it in the possession
of Mexico, and conquered and bought
it, and holds it by treaty solemnly exe
cuted. It is as certain that Texas
never conquered it, never bought it
and has no treaty concession to show
for it.
But Texas insists that she has an
equitable title. She asserted, I think,
in 1826 by a law on her statute book,
that her boundary should be the 42d
parallel. That is she declared her
purpose to conquer so much of New
Mexico. But she never executed nor
even attempted to execute that pur
pose. She came into the United States
without it. Her statute was, therefore
mere orutumfulmen. And the United
States in the Articles of Annexation re
fused to commit themselves in the claim
of Texas. Subsequently the United
States waged war against Mexico, not
for the claim of Texas, but for other
causes, and being thus engaged, ac
cepted New Mexico and California as
indemnities for the expenses of the
contest, after paying fifteen millions of
dollars for their access in value. Thus
the United States, from obligation to
Texas, acquired the Territory of New
Mexico, making the conquest and pay
ing the whole consideration alone.
The claim of Texas is as groundless in
equity as by the strict rules of law.
The claim of Texas is just as good to
the whole of California as to New
Mexico.
Nor is the proposition more satis
factory in regard to the purposes to,
which the Territory is tc- be applied
I am satisfied that the soil of New
Mexico is free soil now. by the opera
tion of unrepealed Mexican laws. I
know that it would be less safe if this
bill would raise a cloud upon the ques
tion; 1 prefer rather to leave New
Mexico as it is.
New Mexico has no representative
here. Every .phase of this Compro
mise exhibits a dismemberment of her
territory, and yet she is to receive no
equivalent. Texas has already a vast
domain of surprising fertility; New
Mexico is less expansive and compara
tively sterile. This bill, nevertheless,
literally applies the scripture: "He
that hath, to him shall be given; and
he thht hath not, from him shall be ta
ken even that which he hath”
The perversion of right proceeds up
on the ground that either New Mexico
has no certain title or that she has no
political Government to defend it.
Sir, New Mexico was a distinct Col
ony of Spain, New Mexico was a State
in the Republic of Mexico, and after
wards was a political Territory in that
Republic. She was never less than
that. We found her in that condition
and character. She sustains that char
acter now. Only her allegiance is
transplanted to the United States,
whils some of the powers of Govern
ment suspended by conquest remain in
abeyance. She is a Republic accord
ing to the definition of Cicero: "Res
publics res populi, coitus multitudinis
juris consensu et ultilitatis communis
societas.
New Mexico has domain, population,
resources and qualified dominion, arts,
customs, laws, and religion. She holds
these physical and moral elements of a
state subordinate to the United States,
but nevertheless distinctly and apart
from all other communities. New
Mexico, moreover, has founded her
institutions on the principle oi the com
mon origin of man and the common
government of God, and thus she pos
sesses the first, last and chief element of
Democratic or Republican States.—
Impartial Civil Liberty, that element
which favors the creation of wealth
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1850.
without which a state must be power
less, the equalization of property with
out an approximation to which a state
is exposed to oppression, that diffusion
of knowledge without which Republican
Institutions cannot be preserved, and
.the developement of strength, courage
and enterprise, without e jltate
cannot flourish. New Mexico has
adopted the system that U oeSt-adap
ted to maintain war, and the system
that is best adapted to secure peace.
New Mexico, therefore, might well
have aspired even under Mexican sway
and much more aspire under the fos
tering care of the United States, to
such greatness as the Free States in
this Union have attained, —such great
ness as is attainable by purely demo
cratic states only.
New-Mexico, pressed by the en
croachments of Texas, and by the jeal
ousy of the Slave States, implores from
us protection of her Territory, and of
her Constitution. This bill of Com
promise,- compromises ber claims by
dividing her Territory right and left,
boldly assisting a part to Undisguised
Slavery, and the rest insidiously to ex
posed Freedom. Sir, if I concur in
giving any Government to New-Mex
ico, it mustbe as good a one as sho
has already. Although the Drama of
our conquest in Mexico tails into suc
cessive acts, conducted by different
performers, it is, nevertheless, one
whole transaction; and if this bill shall
pass, that transaction so far as New-
Mexico is concerned, will be the con
quest of a Free Republic, and the con
version of it in whole'or in part to a
Slave State.
What is New-Mexico, that she
should be thus wronged? An unof
fending rival prostrate at our feet. I
pray you, Senators, for the sake, if not
ofjustice, at least of magnanimity, to
exercise your power over her by spar
ing her, to punish her by forgiving
her the crime of loving Liberty too
well. Her ancient Charter contains
the glowing words established by the
consent of mankind, as the foundation
of all true government, which Jeffer
son made our own:
“All men naturally were born free,
aud were by privilege above all the
creatures, born to coinman and not to
obey earthly authority not derived from
their own consent.”
That Charter is in hands. If
we erase all that out, and give the
Charter back to New-Mexico, a muti
lated and lifeless thing, we shall have
repeated the crime of the partition of
Poland, the crime of the subversion of
the recent brief but brilliant Republic
of Italy; ws shall have emulated the
Stuart who seized the Charters of ihe
free Corporations of England, and
thereby lost a throne, and shall have
surpassed the Guelph who interpolated
taxation, without representation, into
the Constitution of Britain, and thereby
lost the Empire which we enjoy. Sir,
it would be an act so unjust and so ty
rannical, that it would, upon the prin
ciples of our separation from Great l
Britain, work a forfeiture of our title j
altogether. Hear what the good Las
Casas said to the Emperor Charles V.
concerning these very possessions:
“Notwithstanding your grant of all
this country from the Popo, and your
title by conquest, you have yet no right
over them, unless you do, in the first
place, as the principle end, regard
their good. The reason is that regard
is to be had to the principle aud cause
for which a superior or an universal
Lord is set over them, which is their
good and profit, and not that it should
turn to their destruction and ruin; for
if that should be there is no doubt but
that from henceforward that power
would be tyrannical and unjust, as
tending more to the interest and ben
efit of that Lord than to the public
good and profit of the subjects, which
according to natural reason and the
laws of God and man is abhorred and
deserves to be abherred.”
Sir, I beg those citizens of the me
tropolis in the State from which I came,
who have requested me to vote for this
bill, to consider it in these aspects, and
then to “examine 'me, and say how
look I that I should seem to be lacking
injustice and humanity so much as this
fact comes to.”
But it is said that the ordinance of
’B7 is unnecessary in New Mexico, and
therefore is an abstraction, and that it
gives offence.
I cannot yield implict faith to these
who assure me that the pecularities of
soil and climate in New Mexico ex
clude Slavery. They are combined
with other Statesmen who deny that
point, and this bill concedes the point
itself. It expressly covenants to admit
New Mexico as a Slave State if she
shaH come in that character. I cannot
surrender a just and benevolent pur
pose to arguments which knit contra
dictions as closely as words can lie to
gether. I know that there are Slaves
at this moment in Utah, and I know,
moreover, that the discovery of a few
flakes of gold, or of a few grains of
silver, or even of a few clumps of coal,
in the unexplored recesses of New
Mexico, would be followed by a new
revelation of the will of the Almighty
in regard to it.
Sir, perhaps those who excuse this
measure, can point me to a tyrant who
ever deprived his subjects of what he
deemed necessary for them. Nero
thought that one neck would be more
than enough for the Roman people
when he wished that they had but one
that he might destroy the body politic
at a single blow. Perhaps they can
point me to any act conferring or de
claring' human rights, that was not an
abstraction. It was observed by one
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN
of the founders of the Commonwealth
of England, that the promulgation oi
those rights had always “been in term!
not concrete, but abstract. Our own
experience is the same. There is the
Declaration of Independence, with its
solemn recital of the natural equality
of men, and of the inalienability ol
their essential rights. There is the
Constitution of the United States, be
ginning with a sublime-summary of the
objects, and ending with its jealous bill
of personal rights. What were these
but abstractions?
There is the same bill of rights in
every Constitution, and even the Con
stitutions of many of the slave states
hopefully assert abstractions of equality
which for want of only a complete de
velopment of political justice, are not
yet reduced to the concrete by estab
lished laws.
Perhaps, moreover, the apologists
can show me some act declaratory oi
Human Rights that did not give of
fence. The tyrant of France took um
brage at the noble motto Which Alger
non Sidney inscribed in the album ol
the King of Denmark. Nay, Algernon
Sidney expiated with his life the offeoce
of publishing, as mere abstractions,
the fundamental principles of our own
Constitution. And among them was
the Wilmot Proviso, thus expressed by
that immortal patriot:
The liberty of one man cannot be
limited or diminished by one or by any
number of men, and none can give
away the right of another.’ 1
Equal justice always excites fear,
and therefore always gives offence;
otherwise its way would be smooth and
its sway universal. The abstractions
of Human Rights are the only perma
nent foundations of society. It is by
referring to them that men determine
what is established because it is right
in order to uphold it forevei', and what
is right only because it is established
in order that they may lawfully changt
it in accordance with the increase ol
knowledge and the progress qf reason.
The abstraction now in question, is
the right of all the members of a State
to equal political freedom. That is the
Wilmot Proviso; that is the proviso ol
freedom, call it by whatsoever name
you will. If it ever was right at any
time, at any place, under any circum
stances, it is right always, in all places
and under all circumstances. It can
be» renounced safely nowhere. Cer
tainly New Mexico is not the region,
nor is hers the soil nor hers the clime
where it should be renounced. New
Mexico is the very field of the contest.
If we surrender here where we have
all the vantage ground, where else
shall we find ground in which to jnake
resistance
We have taken a breathing spell
from annexation of territory, to divide
the gains. This division once made,
no matter how, the national instinct—
an instinct fostered by democratic sen
timents and sympathies, and invigor
ated by martial ambition, will hurry us
on in a career that presents scarce less
formidable obstructions. Whatever
seemed attractive to the Slave States in
Louisiana, in Florida, in Texas, in
New Mexico, and in California, is sur
passed in the Valley of Mexico, in
Yucatan, in Cuba, in Nicaragua, in
Guatemala, and in other States of
Central America. There are fields
native to the Tobacco plant, to the Rice
plant, to the Cotton plant, and to the
Sugar cane and the tropieal fruits; and
there are even mines of silver and of
gold. There the climate disposes to
indolence, indolence to luxury, and
luxury to slavery. There, those who
can read the Wilmot Proviso only in
the rigors of perpetual winter, or in
arid sands, will fail to discern its inhi
bition. Our pioneers are already in
these inviting regions. Our capital is
making passages through them from
ocean to ocean; and within ten years
these passages will be environed by
American communities, surpassing in
power and wealth, if not in numbers,
the unsettled and unenterprising States
now existing there. You will say that
national moderation will prevent further
annexation. But national moderation
did not hold us back from the Missis
sippi, nor from the Nueces, nor from
the Rio Grande, nor from the coast of
the Pacific ocean. The virtue grows
weaker always as the nation grows
stronger.
The demand of the slave States for
a division line of 36 o 30m., or else
where across the continent, between
Slavery in the South and Freedom in
the North, betrays the near expectation
of these conquests. The domestic
production and commerce in slaves will
supplant .the African slave trade, and
new Slave States will surround the
Gulf of Mexico and cover its islands.
These new States, combined with Slave
States already existing, will constitute
a Slave Empire, whose seat of com
merce on the Crescent Levee will dom
ineer not only overibe Southern portion
of the continent, but through the Miss
issippi and its far-reaching tributaries,
over the valley between the Alleghanies
and the Rocky Mountains. This, sir,
is the dream of the slaveholder, and
this is the interpretation thereof. I
know full well that it is woven of the
stuff which all "dreams are made of:”
I know how hopeless would be the at
tempt to establish and to maintain such
States, and an Empire composed ol
such States. But I know that nothing
seems to Slavery impossible, after ad
vantages already woa, and that calara
tiea distant, and therefore divided, will
tot deter it from the prosecution of its
turpose, or extinguish the hope of
luccess.
There is i sound maxim which teach-
WHOLE NO. 184.
es that every government iaperpetually
degenerating towards corruption, from
which it must be rescued at successive
periods by the resuscitation of its first
principles and the re-establishment of
its original Constitution. The bloed is
not more native to the heart than the
principle of the equality of men con
tained in the Ordinance of ’B7 to the
Constitution of the United States.—
The Constitution of the United States
confers no right upon Congress to de
prive men of their natural rights and
inalienable liberty. I shall, therefore,
insist upon applying the Proviso, not
only when it is necessary to save a ter
ritory from Slavery, but even when its
application might be waived, as a means
of preserving and renewing the Con
stitution itself. It cannot be bad politi
cal husbandry to stir the earth and ap
ply the fresh mold to the roots of the
vine our forefather planted, when its
branches are spreading themselves
abroad and clustering upon the States
which surround us.
Cherishing these opinions, I have
struggled to extend the ordinance of
*7B over New-Mexico. If I fail in that,
I shall not then surrender it by enter
ing into the ridding covenant contained
in this bill, but shall fall back, as I did
in the case of California, upon the peo
ple of the Territory, and leave New-
Mexico ip the mean time under the
protection of her ancient laws, deeming
her more safe in resting free, through
without guard, in open danger, than in
closed in a suspected safety. This,
sir, is non-intervention—such non-in
tervention as you and I can practice
and can justily. Not voluntary, self
imposed non-intervention, to betray
or expose Freedom, but compulsory
non-intervention, when all intervention
to save it had failed. The President an
ticipated that falure through the known
discordance between the two Houses
of Congress, as we all might well have
anticipated it. And therefore he re
commended the alternative without an
unnecessary trial. It would have been
wise for the Slave States to have ad
opted it then. It would be wise for
the Senate to adopt it now. If we re
ject it a iittlo longer, we shall only
reach it at last through the necessity
which .he so well foresaw. When that
time comes, he will have his triumph
ant vindication, for then it will be
seen that he did the most for Harmony
and for Freedom when to dull and pre
judiced apprehensions he seemed to be
doing nothing.
I need only indicate the application
of these remarks to Utah.
The District of Columbia, the off
spring of the Repubic, is cherished
equally by all the States; and if the
destinies of the nation are corruptly
apprehended, the Capital must one day
stand in dignity, and for the liberal
arts, without a parallel. But it yet
lacks one element of greatness, the
dignity af labor. Its atmosphere sup
presses, although it cannot smother,
the love of liberty, which is a public,
universal and undying affection. Why
should the great interests of the capital
be cast into the balance to bring up
the already buoyant scale of Califor
nia The only reason is have
decided to overload that scale with the
weight of your gratuity to Texas, and
of the suppression of Freedom in Utah
and New-Mexico?
Such, Sir, is the manner in which
California, Texas, New Mexico, Utah
and Columbia are wronged by casting
their interests into the misshapen chaos
of fair-seeming forms and mischiefs
manifold, which constitutes this ex
traordinary scheme ef compromise and
adjustment.
The scheme has engrossed the Sen
ate six months to the exclusion of near
ly every other measure. If it ever
shall reach the House of Representa
tives, its most auspicious promise there
is a rejection, to be followed by a final
disagreement between the two Houses.
And this will be the sum of the History
of the First Session of the Thirty-first
Congress—the history of an attempt to
break in one compact and twisted
bundle of fagots so strong and gnarled
that they could hardly be snapped
singly—an attempt to overcome rea
son, passion and prejudice altogether,
instead of engaging reason alone.
We were driven and harrassed into
this strange proceeding by alarms ol
danger to the Republic.—Well, Sir,
California, New-Mexico, Utah and the
District ot Columbia were no sooner
crowded and crammed into this un
wieldy, rickety ark—through distrust
of the customary vehicles of legislation
—to weather out the dark and danger
ous storm —than the storm passed away
like a cloud in Autumn.—The ominous
Kalends of June have come, and with
theft tht extra-cof.sti‘utiona{ as en
blage at Nashville, but not its invading
fleets and hostile armies. So also the
crisis in the House of Representatives
has come without disclosing the steep
ruin once apprehended. The political
elements "have subsided from their wild
uproar. Why not now resume the
voyage in separate vessels, and follow
ing the Presidential chart, make the
port speedily and in safety.
The answer is that the Common
wealth is laboring of wounds which
threaten its safety. It cannot be im
proper to apply to each of them a test
that will search it to the bottom.
The first of them is the alleged ne
glect to surrender fugitive slaves. 'Hus
wound bleeds afresh at every return of
Congress to the Capitol.
•‘Thamrao* came next behind,
Whose enowd wound* in Lebanon allured
'I he byrsn demrele to lament hi. fee
In amor on. diules all a tummer’s dejr.”
Sir, it i« not proved here thafibrfc
fugitives a year are withheld against
lawful demands; nay, I think it it not
proved that even one is so withheld.
The value of what is called slave pro
perty, because the laws of slave States
makes it property, is not impaired *one
dollar. Strength, Beauty and Youth
bring their accustomed prices. Whet,
then, is the evil? The people of the
free States hesitate at the Execution of
the act of 1793 among them, without an
adequate provision for distinguishing
between the real fugitive and the free
I citizen—between surrendering tho un
j happy slave and* kidnapping the still
more unhappy freeman. Atid what is
jyour remedy? To give the form of
trial after the surrender in Hie State to
j which the alleged fugitive is convey
ed. Sir, this will only aggravate this
j exaggerated evil Are you, then, pre
j pared to confess that this proud Re
public approaches its downfall because
ia slave sometimes finds a refuge under
it in spite of its laws?
The next.of these evils is the agita
tion about Slavery in the District of
j Columbia. There are only a thousand
slaves here alt told. The People- of
the free* States remonstrate against
j their being held in hopeless bondage
j but they wait patiently uutil the mind
!of the Nation can be moved to abolish
it. What answer does this bill g-ve to
these remonstrances? It proposes to
remove the slave shambles across the
Potomac, and in return for that con
cession, exacts a guarantee of the
continuanco of Slavery, until Mary
land shall consent to its abolition.
Sir, this is heating the wound by plung
ing deeper into it, the knife (hat made
it. Shall we then authorize the newly
returned Minister from Russia to give
to his Imperial master the gratifying
intelligence that this Republic, the
equipoise of Despotism, hastens to a
fall by a cause so inadequate and so
inglorious as the bare possibility that
1,000 slaves may, some five, ten or
twenty years hence, be redeemed from
bondage!
The next of these evils is the en
croachment of Texas upon New Mexi
co. Well, sir, we will leave the Ter
ritory of New Mexico in the keeping of
the President, and her free institutions
to the care of her own people until she
can come here as a State and demand
admission into the Union.
The fourth of these disasters is the
solitude of 10,000 Mormons in the ba
sin of the Salt Lake. But this soli
tude is of their own choice. They
could could not live under Govern
ment in any of our States. It is, there
fore solitude sw r eetened by independ
ence. The remedy proposed by the
Compromise is to extend to them in
stitutions like those from which they
fled. Sir, the Mormons, when they
shall have gathered a population ade
quate to sustain a State Government,
can es tablish one; and in the meantime
they will be living under the protec
tion of our arms and enjoying the only
laws they are yet prepared to endure.
The is then only one real wound
upon the body politic, the suspension
of California; and this is the very one
which, with exquisite surgery, the
President proposes to us to heal imme
diately, and by itself alone.
But it is insisted that, trivial as those
disturbances are, the country is never
theless irritated, excited and distracted,
Sir, the country seem 9 to me neither
excited nor distracted. It is worried
by our own delays, and has become im
patient—not impatient yet enongh to
approve this bill, but impatient for the
admission of California alone. That is
all.
Still it is replied that the Slavery
question must be settled. That ques
tion cannot be settled by this bill.
Slavery and Freedom are conflicting
systems brought together by the union
of the States, not neutralized nor even
harmonized. Their antagonism is
radical,and therefore perpetual. Com
promise engenders conflict involves,
unavoidably, all questions of a natiuna
interest,—questions of Revenue, of In
ternal Improvements, of Industry of
Commerce, of Political rivalry, and
even all questions of Peace and of War.
In entering the career of conquest, you
have kindled to a fierce heat the fires
you seek to extinguish, because you
have thrown into them the fuel of Pro
pagandism. We have the Propagan
disni of Slavery to enlarge the slave
market and to increase slave represen
tation in Congress and in the Electoral
Colleges,—for the bramble ever seeks
power, though the olive, the fig and
the vine should refuse it, —and Prop
agandism of Freedom to counteract
these purposes. Nor can this Propa
gandism be arrested on either side.
The sea is covered with exiles, and
they swarm over the land Emigration
from Europe, and from Asia, and from
Polynesia, and from the Free States
and from the Slave States and from the
Slave States, goes on and must go on
will go on, in obedience to laws which
I should say were higher than the con
stitution, if any such laws were ac
knowledged here. And I may be al
lowed here to refer those who have been
scandalized by the allusion to such
laws, to a single passage by an author
whose opinions did not err on the side
of superstition or tyranny.
"If it be said that every nation ought
in this to follow their own constitutions
we are at an end of all our controver
sies, for they ought not to be followed
unless they are rightly made: they
cannot be rightly made if they are
contrary to the universal law of God
and Nature” [Discourses on Govern
ment, by Algernon Sidr*ey, ch. 1, p. 40.
And wherever these emigrants go,
whether they go from necessity or of
choice, they form continuous unbroken
streaming processions of colonists,
founders of States, builders of Nations:
and where Colonies are planted, States
are formed of nations built, Labor is
there the first and indespensable ele
ment, and it begins and prosecutes to
the end its strife for freedom and pow
er. While the sovereignty of the Ter
ritories remains here, the strife will
come up here to be composed. You
may slay the Wilroot Proviso in the
Senate Chamber and bury it beneath
hails to-morrow.
When the strife is ended in the Ter
ritory you now possess, it will be re
newed on new fields, to fortify advan
tages gained, or to retrieve losses io
curred; for both of the parties know
there is "yet that word Hereafter.”
Senators have referred us to the
promise of peace, heralded in the Mex
ican Compromise. Sir, that prophecy
if but half its journey yet. The sa
nexation of Texas the invasion of Mexico,
this prolonged struggle oTer California, this
desperate contest for the snows and sands of
New Mexico and Deseret, are all within the
scope and limits of the prediction, and so are
tire strifes yet to come over ice bound regions
beyond the Sr. Lawrence and sunburnt plains
beneath the tropics.
But while this compromise will fail of all
its purposes, it will work out serious and
lasting evils. All such Compromises, are
changes of the Constitution, made in deroga
tion of the Constitution. They render it
uncertain in its meaning, and impair ita vigor
as well as its sanctions. This Compromise
finds the Senate in wide divergence from the
House of Representatives, by reason of the
undue multiplication of feeble consumptive
States effected by former Compromises of
the same sort. You will incur that evil until
the Congress of the United States will be un
able to conduct the business of the cojntrv
by reason of a chronic disagreement between
this and the popular branch, and the result
will be the abolition of one branch or of the
othei. Either of such would probably he fa
tal to Liberty.
This compromise is rendered doubly dan
gerous by the circumstance that it is a con
cession to alarms of disorganizatjpn and fac
tion. Such concessions once begun, follow
each other with fearful rapidity and always
increasing magnitude. It is time, high time
•hat panics about the Union should cease;
that it should be known and felt that the
Constitution and the Union within the limits
of human security, are safe, firm and perpet
ual.—Settle what you can settle, confide in
that old arbiter Time for his favor and aid in
(settling foT the future, what belongs to the
future, and you will hereafter be relieved of
two classes of patriots whose labors can well
be spared—those who clamor for disunion,
either to abolish slavery or to prevent eman
cipation, and those who surrender principles
or sound policy to clamors so idle.
Sir, the agitations which alarm us are
not signs of evils to come, but mild efforts of
the Commonwealth for relief from mischiefs
past.
There is a way, and one way only, to put
them at rest. Let us go back to the ground
where our forefathers stood. While we
leave Slavery to the care of the States
which it exists, let us inflexibly direct the
policy of the Federal Government to circum
scribe its limits, and favor its ultimate extin
guishment. Let those who have this mis
fortune entailed upon them, instead of con
triving how to maintain an equilibrium that
never existed, consider carefully how, at
some time—it may be ten, or twenty, or
even fifty years hence—by some means, by
means of their own, and with our aid, with
out sudden change or violent action, they
may bring about the Emancipation of Labor,
and its restoration to its just dignity and pow
er in the Slate. Let them take Hope to
themselves, give Hope to the Free States,
awaken Hope throughout the world. They
will thus anticipate only what must happen
at some time, and what they themselves
must desire, if they can corne safely, and as
soon as it can come without danger. Let
them do only this, and every cause of disa
greement will cease, immediately and forever.
We shall then not merely endure each other
but we shall be reconciled together, and shall
realize once more the concord which results
from mutual league, united counsels, and
equal hopes and hazards in the most sublime
and beneficient enterprizo the earth has wit
nessed. The fingers of the Powers obove
would tune the harmony of such a Peace.
Mr. Seward’s Speech.
It is not our intention to fill up our col
umns with long political speeches; but, when
the nation is the subject of an agitation sel
dom if ever excelled; when it is in the midst
of a great moral conflict, which marks a dis
tinct period, and forms a crisis in our national
histoiy; when the friends of three millions of
bleeding and oppressed men, women and
children are beginning to be heard in the
national councils, and when in those councils
the voice of truth, of humanity and of God is
finding an utterance, we cannot regard it as
anything else than duty to let our readers en
joy for themselves, some of the first fruits of
the struggle in which they have been engag
ed for years. We regard this speech of Mr.
Seward as well as his former, and the various
heart-cheering speeches that have been utter
ed in Congress this session, as some of the
first fruits of the long struggle in which Abo
litionists have been engaged.
We do not regard this speech as superior
to Mr. Seward’s former effort. It is indeed
more classic and ornate, but it lacks the poin|
and edge which the former possessed. That
which gave us the most pleasure in Mr. Sew
ard’s foimer speech was his advocacy of the
faw of God, as superior to law of man.—
While, therefore, Mr. Seward and Aboli
tionists propei, differ as regards the pro-sla
very or the anti-slavery character of the Con
stitution, both must come at last to the same
conclusion, that slavery even if constitutional,
ought immediately to be abolished. Mr.
Seward, and those who act with him politi
cally, must come to this conclusion from the
position he and they occupy, namely, that
slavery is contiary to the law of God. The
Aboliiionist comes to ihe same conclusion be
cause he believes slavery to be contrary both
to the law of God and the Constitution ol
his country.
How moitifying it is to see a politicise
boldly and faithfully condemning slavehold
ing as contrary to the law of God, while at
many professed ministers of Christ declare il
to be in harmony with that law!
So far as we have been able to observe, th<
speech meets with very general favor.—
American Baptist.
t orrmpoudence of the Baltinorv Patriot.
CjJov. Seward’i Speech.
Washington, July 2.
The Senate was occupied, as will be seen,
to-day with the concluding portion of Mr.
Upham’s speech, and a speech of about an
hour and a quaiter from Mr. Seward, of New
Vork. Mr. Seward seems to have abandon
ed his more ultra positions, and to talk more
like an old fashioned Whig. His speech to
day was one of the most powerful and effec
tive efforts of oratory to which I have ever
listened, in or out of Congress. It command
ed for an bout and a quarter at the close of a
protracted session, the most profound atten
tion of the Senate. He is an able represent
ative of a great State, and however much we
may regret or conUemn some of the opinions
he has advanced during this session, bis
great abilities were universally admitted by
all who heard him, of both parties. I have
seldom, if ever, beheld the Senate when it
was hushed into so profound silence, by a
speech upon any ordinary occasion.—l can
not help imping that Senator Seward will
renounce every vestige of ultraism, and come
out upon purely national grounds, but I think
lie is fast verging toward such a position.
Senator Seward’s Second Speech
Cov. Seward has spoken again for Freedom.
His Speech, which will be found in another
part of this paper, is worthy of its great
theme. It will find, in this State, at least,
more readers, and a warmer approval, than
that uf any other Statesman of the present
may we not say, of any former Cong less?—
Alt>. Journal.
Death or tie President or the UmrfD
•states.— We stop out press to announce
what seems to us a great publie calamity.
1 uesday night, at half mm ten o’clock, Pres
ident Taylor breathed his last. He partici
pated last Thursday (the 4th) in the celebra
uons of that day, and appeared in his usual
natural health. Early the next morning he
was attacked with cholera morbus, fever
superseded, and Tuesday night he died.
Rarely has the disease of any public man
given us so much pain aa this melancholy
event. We have no {room for comment.—
JSaUonul Em. T
Posting of London Newspapers viewed
from wit Hi li-
lt was a quarter before six o’clock when
they crossed the Hall—six being the latest
hour at which newspapers can be posted with
out fee. It was then just drizzling newspa
p&pers. The great window of that depart
ment being thrown open, the first black fringe
of a thunder-cloud of newspapers impending
over the Post-office was discharging itself
fitfully—now in large drops, now in little;
now in sudden plumps now stopping alto
gether. By degrees it began to rain hard;
by fast degrees the storm came on harder, un
til it blew, rained, hailed, anowed, newspa
pers. A fountain of newspapers played in
at the window. Waterspouts of newspaper*
broke from enormous aacks and engulphed
the men inside. A prodigious msin of news
papers, at the Newspaper River Head, seem
ed to be turned on, threatening destruction to
the miserable Post-office.' The Post-office
was so full already, that the window foamed
at the mouth with newspapers. Newspapers
flew out like froth, and were tumbled in again
by the bystanders. All the boys in London
seemed to have gone mad, and to be beseig
inglhe Post-office with newspapets. Now
and then there was a girl; now and then a
woman; now and then a weak old man: but
as the minute hand of the clock crept near to
six, such a torrent of boys, and such s tor
rent of newspapers, came tumbling in togeth
er pell-mell, head over heels, one above
another, that the giddy head looked on chiefly
wondering why the boya, springing over one
another’s heads and flying the garter into the
Post-office with the enthusiasm of the corps
of acrobats at M. Franconi’s didn’t post
themselves nightly, along with the newspa
pers, and get delivered all over the world.
Suddenly it struck six. Shut Sesame!
Perfectly still weather. Nobody there. No
token of the late storm—not a soul too late!
But what a chaos within! Men up to their
knees in newspapers on great platforms, men
gardening among newspapers with rakes;
men digging and delving among newspapers
as if a new description of rock had been
blasted into those fragments; men going up
and down a gigantic trap—an ascending and
descending room, worked by a steam engine
—still taking with them nothiog but news
papers! All the history of the time, all the
chronicled births, deaths and marriages, all
the erimes, all the accidents, all the vanities,
all the changes, all the realities; of all the
civilized earth, heaped up, parceled out, car
ried about, knocked down, cut, shuffled,
played, dealt, gathered up, and passed from
hand to hand, in an apparently interminable
and hopeless confusion, but really in a sys
tem of admirable order, certainty, snd sim
plicity, pursued six nights every week, all
through the rolling year! Which of us, af
ter this, shall find fault with the rather mote
extensive system of good and evil, when we
don’t quite understand it at a glance; or set
the stairs right in their spheres? The friends
weie informed that seventy millions passed
through all the Post-offices every year. Up
wards of eighty million newspaper stamps
are distributed annually from the stamp-of
fice; but most of the London papers are con
veyed into the country by early trains. On
the other hand, frequently the same paper
passes through the post several times, which
accounts for >he small excess of ten million
stamps issued over papers posted. In weight
ono hundred and eighty-seven tons of paper
and print pass up and down the ingenious
“lift” every week, and thence to the utter
most cornets of ihe earth—from Blackfriars
to Botany Bay, from the Strand to Cbusan.
—Household Words.
Parisian Gossip.
COMPILED FROM RECENT FOREIGN PAPERS.
I cannot pretend to tell you that the spiri
or what the feeling may be that for the prea
ent moment has taken possession of the Pa
risian; he is silent and reserved, but he ii
neither gloomy nor apprehensive. It is evi
dent that he is thorougly discontented wit!
the present position of affairs, but haa no im
mediate intention of attempting anything
either to change or to direct them. He seem*
to be patiently waiting for the turn of the
tide, expecting with it a storm; but wbetbei
•it will be a passing shower of a terrific burs
he cannot foresee. Some think that there it
only a deceitful calm, whilst others fancj
that they see a blue sky and a brilliant sun
One thing cannot fail to strike the observer
which is, that in the places where people
“most do congregate,” to talk of the passing
events of the world, there are few who art
anxious, or even jwilling, to express theij
opinion, but seem to be under a control that it
completely inconsistent with the usual charac
ter of the people.
The weather haa been remarkably fine
though many complain of the heat. At ihu
season it is that Paris is seen to (terfection
The purity of the air, the singular brilliancy
of the light, the vivid green of the trees,
which seem to have sprung up by some en
chantmentoo the self-same spot on the Boule
vards from whence they were torn for the
barricades, give an air of freshness and oi
gaiety which belong to no other city. Kvei v
body seems to enjoy himself in hit own way
There are the magnificent halla of the Louvrt
for the lovers of the fine arts; the well-regu
lated Jctrdin des Plantes for the naturalist
the treasures of the public libaries for the
studious; and for the lounger, the fashonable
and the gossip, are there not the chairs in the
gardens of the railleries? and for the epi
cure, are there not the restaurants of the
Palais Royale, and the ices and the coffee o
Tortoni and the Maison Doree—or, the
“House ofGold,” as it is often called frotr
the rapidity with which that metal disappear!
from the pockets of its frequenters.
Aftet many years* consideration of the
benefits and the evils which result fiom mac
adamization of the principle streets of Paris,
a commencement has been made on the Boule
vards, to the great consternation of all the
makers of barricades, who thus will lose all
the means of buildiog up those ingenious de
fences against military action. Whether this
system will succeed is to be found out: cer
tainly the noise in the streets of Paris is in
tolerable; for, as there are no areas inhabited
by domestices, as in London, where the sound
of vehicles is lost, there is a tremendous re
verberation from each aide of the way. On
the other hand, the dust will prove intoler
able, for the fine stone, formed of the sul
phate of lime, is quickly reduced to an im
palpable powder, which will speedily find its
way into the shops, and spoil all those deli
cate and showy articles which are the pride
and beauty of the Persian manufacturer.
Discoveries of gold mines ate daily talked
of. We have now a report that in the Pied
montese Alps has been found the source
the wealth of the great family of Borromeo,
one of its members having been buired at
Milan with treasures far surpassing anything
told us in the “Arabian Nights’ Entertain
ments.” Compared with this new auriferous
wonder, it is said California is but a barren
rock. Some of the speculators who hold
shares in this marvellous mine expect to have
the rest of their lives gilded over with eternal
sunshine, and calculate upon supernatural fe
licity. These waking dreams are no doabt
vety fascinating, but alas! they wUi be found
unreal visions, which corrupt sad weaken the
understanding.
The manufacturers are making great pi#
parations for the London Industrial Exhibi
tion. New Englander,
t 1 i I,
O* J- G. Whittier, in aa article in the
Era, indignantly declares that Webster’s as
sertion as to the approval of his speech by the
Friends, is “unqualifiedly false to the last de
gree.” He says that there is not a member
of that Society who could carry out the pro
viston of Mason’s hill “without tendering
himself liable to immediate expulsion from a
Society whose character would be disgraced
and whose discipline would be violated bv
such *cUQa,>’~£wtU American,
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JULY 18, 1860.
The North (Star i* sometium sent to friend*
who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
mar we fit to subscribe for it. Subscription* mad
donation* for the aarne may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglas*, Rochester,
N. Y.
o^*Wart*d —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers ftw the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to FRED
ERICK Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
To our Subscriberi. —ln several cotem
porary anti-slavery journal#, we have tecenily
seen a notice to “subscribers.” We shall
take the hint thus afforded us, and request all
subscriber iu arrears for this paper to favor
us by remitting the amouuts due, through the
post. Let each friend of the cause exert
himself to increase the circulation of our pa
per by obtaining one new subscriber.
Our English friends who have not paid
their subscriptions to the North Star, for the
year 1850, are requested to forward them, by
Post Office Order, to Mrs. Henry Richard
son, 5, Sumraerhill GAve, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.— r. d
KJ* Will our Toronto friends who have not
paid their übscriptions for the present year
of the North Star, have the kindness to for
ward them to our Agent, Mr. J. James Carey!
Letter from the Editor.
Cincinnati, July 5, 1850.
Dear Readers After a long and tedious
journey, I reached this far-famed young city
of the West yesterday at 11 P. M. I took
passage from Buffalo on board the new and
beautiful steamer “Alabama, 1 for Sandusky
City, on Tuesday night at ten o’clock.—
There was some hesitation, on the part of the
Clerk, about giving me a ticket, but, after
consulting with tbs Steward, and waiting on
a number of white gentlemen, (who applied
for ticketa long after I did,) he at last conde
scended to give me a first-class ticket, for
ten dollars, through to this city, and to direct
me to a state-room which, though badly ven
tilated, was quite tolerable. Did not duty re
quire it, I would never travel on Lake Erie,
beautiful as it is, while the abominable pre
scription of colored persons prevails; for of
what value are all the beauties of nature,
where human nature itself is violated, degm
ded and insulted?
Parting with my esteemed friend, A. H.
Francis, of Buffalo, (who kindly accompanied
me to the steamer, and did what he could to
secure me a comfortable passage,) I went
immediately to my beith, seeking to avoid
recognition or observation, and to pass the
time of the trip in quiet. I was, of course,
required, during the passage, to take my
meals alone. In other respects, my fare,
though not equal to. that of the first table
was good enough for a plain man.
Notwithstanding my desite to pass unob
served during tbe passage thanks to th«
pro-slavery press—l am altogether too noto
rious to travel long unknown in any part o
i this country. 1 was soon surrounded by i
number of gentlemen and solicited to addrest
the fpasseogers. The unanimous consent o
all parlies being obtained, J did not feel a
liberty to decline; and therefore addressed th<
meeting in a speech of one hour and a half
and was listened to, for the most part, wit!
evident interest. There were slaveholders or
board, and some pro-slavery men, wtio o
course did not very well relish ray anijpad
versions on our national character and pe
culjar institutions;” but the affair, as a whole
passed off well, and the effect, I ihink, wai
good. Several gentlemen spoke to me after
ward in a kind and respectful manner; and ai
altered tone of feeling towards me was pretty
evident. There were a number of pleasan
and intelligent colored men on board, ant
they seemed especially gratified that I hat
spoken; and some of them showed their in
terest in our common cause, by subscribing
and paying for tbe North Star. So mucl
for my anti-slavery meeting on board tb«
steam-packet “Alabarfla.”
Wednesday was a beautiful day and th<
broad expanse of tbe inland ocean, with the
imposing forests which extend along its south
shore, presented a view of beauty and gran'
deur seldom surpassed. The steamer touched
at several ports on the Lake—Fairport, Ash
tabula, and Cleveland. The landings were
performed with great despatch, and we were
soon off again, swinging clear of the land,
and breaking again the cresting waves of the
broad blue lake. About twenty hours from
Buffalo, our steamer brought us safely into
the Bay of Sandusky. This Bay is a fine
sheet of water, encircled by land, well cov
ered and sheltered by lofty, luxurious woods,
and forms x fine harbor. Sandusky City is
built upon a low, fiat, uninteresting, ill-con
ditioned surface, and looks peculiarly inviting
to sickness. It is not surprising that tbe
cholera should have made such inioads and
havoc among its population. The land is
exceedingly low, and but poorly cultivated,
for many miles around. The Railroad from
Sandusky to Springfield, is rightly named the
Mad Rivet Railioad,” for, though the river
may be tame enough, tbe road is one of the
craziest that this country affords. Its rails
are flat, and are so irregularly laid as to jostle
tbe cars from side to side like a ship encoun
tering adverse waves. Upon ibis toad I was
tossed all night. Sleep wta out of the ques
tion. I felt as tired in the morning as a sailor
at the pumps. The road from Springfield to
Cincinnati is good, and will compare favorably
with the best railroads in New England and
New York. There is no proscription on ac
count of color on this Road—at least 1 re
ceived no ill treatment from any of the serv
ants or officers on it. Tbe country from
Springfield to Cincinnati is charmingly beau
tiful. The soil is rich; the crops look well,
and promise a fine harvest. Tbe Miami
Valley, through which the road from Spring
field to Cincinnati passes, is one of the
in tbe country. Its woods are peculiar for
richness, covering the hill-sides from base to
MimeaiL No lover of Nature can pass thro’
his valley witboutbeing soothed and chsrmed
>j its tranquil beauty. The trees reminded
ne of some of the best carad-fiw woods ol
Stilish noblemen. They needed little labor
o make them superior in many respects to tbe
aoet beautiful in Devon* bite.” When I
bought that this fertile valley ’is probably l
owned by the hard-L»nded fanner, whose
neat dwelling and luxuriant fields broke upon
me at intervals, and varied the pleasant view,
l felt that the people might well celebrate the
Fourth of July. They have some reason to
do so. I could almost have joined with them,
if I were not checked and saddened by the
recollection that even this beautiful valley ia
but uommon hunting-ground for men—that
even here, the panting slave may be ckaaed,
caught, chained, and buried back into inter
minable slavery. With t bis thought, I could
not but look upon the parade and noisy de
monstrations which met us at every village,
aa bellow mockery—deceitful show.
Five hours brought us from Springfield to
Cincmsaii, and in foil view ot the Ohio
River. This is the nearest approach 1 have
ever made to the land of slavery since I es
caped the grasp of my inaater, now nearly
twelve yeara ago.
During the memorable odfe hundred Con
ventions held in the Western States, seven
years ago, under the management of the
Massachusetts Anti-Slaveiy Society, I waa
strongly tempted to accompany my brother
this city, but waa earnestly ad-
it by my ami-slavery friend*,
who deemed it unsafe. 1 was then a slave;
British gold had not broken tbe legal power
of mv master over my person; and it was
feared that 1 might be kidnapped—spirited to
the Kentucky side of the Ohio, and doomed
to a life of slavery, saw the danger, and
shunned it; yet I felt a certain slavish feeling
quite galling to my spi.it. I had reached the
Southern wall of my prison, and was
chafing against its rough aides when 1 had
fancied myself in a free State. There ia a
bitter peculiarity in feelings induced by such
a state of things. To dread the serpent, the
hyena, the tiger, and other ferocious inhabit
ants of tbe untamed forest, is natural. We
shrink from these instinctively. But to be
afraid of our brother man— to dread the
approach of a being whose presence should
shed over us the bright beams of social hap
piness, and inspire us with confidence and
brotherly kindness—a being who should em
body in his character the light and light of
justice and mercy—to see in a being ranked
by the Living God as but." a little lower than
the angels”—the malign qualities of the vul
ture and the wolf, adds to the pang of fear
an intense mortification, and sense of degra
dation, too painful to be described. That
hundreds of slaves prefer the danger and
darkness of the dismal swamps to the homes
and plantations of their Christian masters,
is proof that they dread (he wolfish propensi
ties of the slave holder more than they dread
the real wolf. The appetite of the wild beasts
may be satisfied, his thirst slaked but who
can satisfy the blood thirsty slave holder
He is unappeasable; the more he gets the
more he wants. This vindictiveness is equal
to his selfishness while the one is increased
by torture, the other is not lessened by what
it obtains. Like the insatiable horse leach,
bis cry is, give, give, give From the power
of such monsters it is not strange that the
slave should strive to keep elear. But 1 am
digressing. My journey to this City, though
in many respects agreeable, wan altogether
too rapid, rough, and laborious to afford me a
chaifce of writing a word for the Star” by
the way, and the distance from Cincinnati to
Rochester is so great that 1 fear this will not
reach the North Star office in time for next
week’s paper. I shall, however, (hoping
against hope) huny off a short sketch of my
journey and doings since Monday morning,
Ist of July, up to this, the fifth day of my
absence from home.—f. o.
[The above letter was received too late to be
Inserted in the last week’s paper.]
Letter (row the Editor— No. 2.
Cincinnati, July 9, 1850.
My last letter brought me to Cincinnati
and to the fifth of July. 1 have been so hur
ried by my appointments, and oppressed by
the excessively warm weather, as to be una
ble to attend very faithfully to my editorial
correspondence. AH who sympathize with
the object of my mission, and some who do
not so sympathize, appear to think that they
have especial claims upon my time and at
tention, and to these claims, well or ill found
ed, 1 have been disposed to yield-
My first meetings here were held in College
Hall, a spacious room, capable of accommo
dating from one thousand to fifteen hundred
persons. J held two meetings on the fifth of
July, afternoon and evening. The audience
was large, and the Thermometer at ninety
six. As might have been expected, so soon
after the fourth of July, when the great deeds
of our venerated and revolutionary sires were
fiesh in every man’s memory, it was difficult
to speak with any force or faithfulness with
out giving offence to some patriotic souls who
heard me. Iu my first speech I did this.
My sentiments Btired up the elements of
wrath in a couple of gentlemen from Louis
ville, Kentucky. Their chivalrous spirit was
dreadfully ruffled, and they spoke right out in
the meeting One of them bravely told roe
that I ought to be in the penitentiary, and
that if he tad it in his power he would put
ijte there, with many other similar compli
mentary expressions. Their impertinent and
vulgar interruptions were exceedingly annoy
ing to the hearers, but not very embarrassing
to me. They were turned to the account’of
freedom, and perhaps did as much good as
anything 1 could have said during the time
occupied by the interrupters. J observed that
these gallant Kentuckians received very little
encouragement from the citizens of Cincin
nati. If I mistake jtot, the men of the
“Buckeye State 1 have nearly come to the
conclusion to let the man stealers of old “Ken
tuck” do their own mobbing and other dirty
work, and although they believe in allowing
to slave holders some privileges that they do
not usually accord to others or claim for
themselves, they nevertheless seemed to think,
on this occasion, that theie were limits even
to the privileges of slave holders according
ly one of the cltaeoa stepped toward the up
roarous slave holding dondiet ana gave them
to ondeistand that 11 they did not cease their
aoboeralic demonstrations, they might possi
bly get their cloth soiled mad perhaps other
wise mired. They were toM that if they did
not behave, they weuld be put oo* of the
boose. This sober admonition bad the desir
ed effect, the gentlemen became orderly, and
all has gone os smoothly since. I understand
tme of them now (Mr- Stewart) professes to
have become a convert. He sat very quietly
and listened very attentively to my remarks at
the'secood meeting. Whu know* but what
be may yet fine bis slaves Such a result is
out impossible, though I fear it a improbable.
Cincinnati is one buttered and fifty miles fiom
Louisville, a hasty conversion might easily
vanish into thin air” during the journey
from one place to the other. The oorrnpnng
influence of slavery is so strong that be must
be a well organised man, and deeply imbued
with the spirit and principle of human free
dom, to rise above its pernicious power.
1 have now held five meetings, and deliver
ed five addreaaesin this city: three in College
Hall, one on Walnut Hill, and one in the
'Second Baptist Church, on Baker street. All
the meetings have been numerously attended,
and I am informed that many have kept away
on account of the intense heat, and the preva
lence of cholera. This dreadful disease
seems to have fully entered upoe its mission
of death, and numbers its victims by fifties per
day. The German population suffer moat
from the ravages thus far, but it now seems
likely to spread among the population at
large. There are several causes which make
Cincinnati peculiarly liable fp this and other
frightful diseases. It is completely surround
ed, on three aides, by lofty hills, so that the
purifying brecoes b?vp not fair spope. Jt is
closely and compactly built. The houses are
high, the streets are uarrow, and are paved
with a soft limestone, wholly unfit for the pur
pose—it being next to impossible to keep
them in repair—they are cuf by the wheels of
carts, drays and carriages into deep boles,
these soon $ll up with water and filth; the
hot sun blazing upon them, they foment, decay,
and with the aid of swine that wallow in them,
they send forth a noxious stench, truly sick
ening. I understand that it is the purpose of
the city authorities to cause these limestone
pavements to be taken up, and to relay the
streets with a superior, harder stone, which is
now obtained from the bed of the river.
When this is done it will be much easier to
keep the streets clean, and the health of the
city will be greatly improved.
In looking at Cincinnati, with its fine build
ings, its population of a hundred and thirty
thousand, and its general city like appearance,
it is difficult to believe that the spot on which
it stands was all a wilderness half a century
ago; yet such it was. All this, however,
will be more surprising t j my English readers
than to Americans. Towns and cities spring
up and grow so rapidly in this country, that
the case is not unfrequent that the old farmer
lives to see a pity built qpop fiis corn held.
But my sheet is now nearly full. 1 shall
have something to say about the colored popj
ulation of Cincinnati in my next letter.
Frederick Douglass.
In Slavery Right 1
Is slavery morally right I This is a ques
tion which, in the abstract, would receive an
unanimous negative, but when viewed through
the medium of self-interest, it becomes debata
ble, and gives rise to council—darkening con
troversies. The advocates of slavery seldom
refer to its moral legality, but attempt to jus
tify it on the grpupd of constitutional legality.
Southern chattel breeders, with all the
navivete of the shrewd patriaieh of ring
streaked memory, point to the Federal cove
nant, and with the pathos of injured inno
cence, complain of its infraction, when men
of the North refuse to make more effectual
provisions for depriving people of certain
inalienable rights, among which are life, lib
erty and the pursuit of happiness, when in
the course of human events, they dissolve the
bands which have connected them with others,
and assume that station to which the laws of
nature and nature’s God entitle them, and
eyen among Northern men, who have often
times been reputed wise, reprehend this re
fusal because it appears to them like an effort
to re-enact the laws of God and the declar
ation of Independence.” They seem to think
that although it was wrong for the South to
chattelize man, still it may possibly be txpe
dient for the North to re-chattelize him or—
to compare great things with spall—that
there should be more effectual provisions for
the restoration of stolen goods to the thief,
after they have been recovered by the lawful
owner. But a higher principle than consid
erations of mere expedience should influence
the decision of questions involving the dearest
interests of humanity. The dictates of just
ice, imperious justice, must be regarded.
There is, there can be but one answer to this
question Slavery is wrong, totally wrong.
Let those, who would rather be right than be
President, beware of following the Ignis fatuus
of decomposing hopes of greatness, into the
moral quagmire of expedience. It is vain to
attempt to effect a compromise between the
laws of God and the third paragraph f the
second edition of the fourth article of the con
stitution.—M.
New York Cirv, July 4, 1850.
J. Candler and 0. W. Alexander.—
These dear friends, who, with their wives,
have been engaged for several months, as onr
readers are aware, in visiting the West In
dies, arrived-in New Yoik early on the
24th ult. from Jamaica. We have had the
pleasure of seeing them in New York and
also in Philadelphia. Their report of the
effects of emancipation upon the planters snd
the colored people, differs widely from the
accounts circulated in the newspapers of this
country.
A great change has come over the minds
of the planters in regard to slavery, and
our friends met with none who would he wil
ling to have the old system restored. They
were received everywhere with the utmost
kindness, and held large anti-slavery meetings
in most of the colonies, rejoicing to see even
old oppressors hearing testimony to the val
ue of human freedom, and expressing their
gladness that slavery ia no more amongat
them.
The sentiments of our friends relative te
the condition of the laborers and the eause
of the existing commercial depression in the
islands are similar, we believe, to those ex
pressed by a correspondent of the New York
Evening Post in in article on the British
West Indies inserted amongst our Selec-
Aftei visiting Washington and souse of
our eastern cities, O. W. andC. Alexander
expect to return to England, but John and
Maria Candler will piobabJy travel west-1
ward. I
Runaway Negroes.— Officer A. L. Jones,
in.at tempting to- capture two runaway ne
groes, came near losing his life on Wednesday
night feat. He had found them on a boat
to the liver, and when arrested they attempt
ed to throw him overboard. Seizing each
of theni, he pulled both overboard with him
*I »f Ik. negroes,the
other drowned,refuting u i«uS;, w |i e l
waa offered hitn The negro drowned had
fbr a long time, and belonged
to Mr. Jacob Barrett, of Charleston,-S
nuA Otorjnan Jum gy th.
fVwn the .LUertjr Petty Paper.
i kUftti Colored Gem
Cwnl Smith.
Dear Friend.—We beg leave to lay be
fore you, brief statement of fecta, in relation
to injuries recently inflicted upon ua. For
some time previous to ItM April, the colored
ehSdien of Albany, attended the several
District Schools in the city, as it was clearly
*heir right to do, the colored people being
«SHslly with others for the support oI
rubiie Schools. But at that time, our school
commissioners adopted a resolution ejecting
the coioted children from the slid schools,
i fot no other fault than their complexion, and
i directing the several teachers not to adroit
our children for instruction; thus compelling
us to send oor children to an inferior school,
provided for their exclusive use and incon
veniently located; or else to be deprived of
the benefit of the public school" fund.
This act of injustice induced ua to make a
united effort to have these grievances re
moved; and accordingly we assembled and
protested in respectful but earnest terms
t a B*j§*t ib* of the commiasiooera, and
em 10 re#cind the offensive reao
lntVr Our appeal \va# made in y^in—the
commissioners did not even ueign to reply to
it, thus virtually denying ns the right of
petition them on the subject of our wrongs;
a further appeal to the superintendent, was
equally futile.
Failing to obtain redress by these pacific
mesne, snd regarding the principle involved
as of top greaj importance to he abandoned
without struggle, yre have resolved to teat
the legality ot tbeir doings in a court of Jaw.
To cany out our purpose, we are compelled
to request the assistance of our friends. Our
object in now addressing you, is to solicit a
contribution from you in aid of our under
taking, apd wp confidently trust that our ap
peal to your generosity will not be made in
vain. |n deciding upop the merits of our
application to your sympathies, we hope you
will divest yourself of any unfavorable im
pression growing out of our soeialj condition,
and seek only to regard us as citizens seeing
for our national rights.
Respectfully, Yours, &0.,
w. p. Mclntyre, cw.
of Finance Committee,
FRANCIS VAN VRANKEN,
Treasurer, 32 Stqte St.
Albany, June 25tbi 1850.
Answer.
PjKTERSORQ, June 28th, 1850.
Messrs. Mclntire and Van Vranken:
Your letter, in behalf of the colored people
of Albany, is just received.
The colored people of the Northern States
are not mistaken in tbeir conclusion, that they
are the subjects of the deepest and most
cruel wrongs. Rut they are mistaken, in
regard to the remedy for those wrongs. This
remedy is to get rid of their self-degradation,
and to cultivate self-respect. Until they res
pect themselves, others vyill not respect them-
Until they cease to degrade themselves,
others will degrade them. I have held this
language to them, for many years. But they
prefer closing their ears to me, and opening
them to their flatterers and deceivers.
How traitorous to his own rights and the
rights of his race—how wanting jn self-re
spect —nay how base—is the colored man,
who will consent to belong to a church, or to
a political party, the members of which make
his complexion a bar to social equality! What
a curse to the anti-slavery cause is such a
colored man! I care npt what m*y be his
merits —it is better for this cause, that he be
below than shove ground.
I have often thought with horror of the
significance of the vulgar and profane ex
pression: “I’ll see you damn’d first.” And,
yet, I would see a man damned, sooner than
I would consentto damn myself. Now, one
of the most effectual ways of man to damn
himself is to degrade himself—to defile and
debase his soul—by such political and eccle
siastical associations, as those, to which f
referred. He had better see all the
politicians and religionists around him go to
perdition, than suffer himself to be guilty of
descending from the Heaven of self-respect to
the Hell of self-degradation.
Shall I ever see the day, when the colored
men of the North shall sternly and invincibly
refuse to vote for those, or identify them
selves, in church relations, with those, who
refuse to eat by the side, or to ait in church
by the side, or to let their children sit in
school by the side, of colored persons? Slave
ry cannot long survive that blessed day.
Your proposed litigation will, .probably,
avail you nothing- Inasmuch as you despise
yourselves, your Judges and Jurors will also
despise you. Nevertheless, your cause is
right, and I will stand by it, and contribute
money to sustain it. I send yon herewith my
draft for $25. You will write me, from time
to time, as you shall need mere money to
carry pn the law suit.
Notwithstanding this recent insult to the
colored people of Albany, I expect to hear,
after the next Fall Election, that they have
again voted for anli-abolitionists and the des
pisers of their race. In the name of consis
tency, what right have they to complain of
this insult?
Respectfully, your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
Anti-Slavery Baptists Attend.—A call
has appeared in the Christian Contributor,
and in the Christian Reflector, for a meeting
of all anti-slavery Baptists, in New England
to meet in Lowell with the 3d Baptist church,
on the 10th of July next at 10 o’clock, A. M.
The object of the meeting is to consider our
denominational relation to slavety, and what
ia demanded of ua as Christians at the present
time.
Brethren of the Baptist denomination, more
than one hundred and twenty-five thousand
of our brethren and sisters are in bondage in
this land. Bought and sold like beasts in the
market—multitudes of our accredited minis
ters are alaveholdeia—many more of our
ministera and private members are apologists
for slavery—a large number of our Northern
pulpits, and communion tables are made free
to these perpetrators of tlie foul deed. Oar
groat religious bodies address no language of
rebuke to slavery; but participate in its gains
and do honor to its champions. Brethren, in
view of these facta is there not something for
us to do? The God above is calling us to
arouse from our guilty slumber over this
mightiest sin—the voice of wretched, beseech
ing. humanity ia upon unr ear—a church
spotted with blood, and staggering beneath
the weight of Divine displeasure, and a coun
try reeling to her ruin, all call us to hurry ie
the rescue before it is too late.
Brethren, will you not say to all yoor
labors and interests as Abraham said to his
servants, “Tarry ye here and I and the lad
will go yonder and worship?”
Brethren, 1 am yours for
God and Humanity.
A. T. FOSS.
lndi. Democrat.
Frederick Douglass. —This individual,
who has obtained much celebrity, in Europe
and this country, arrived in f his city on the
Fourth.
Mr. Douglass, while on the steamer “Ala
bama,” waa invited by the passengers to ad
dress them. He replied, that he was opposed
to speaking on such occasions, as there fight
be nemons present, who might be unwilling
to hear him, and he made it an invariable
rule to decline, if any one person bad the least
option.
The passengers were then publicly called
upon to make any objection, if any were en
tertained—none being made, Mr. Douglas
promptly came forward and addreaaed the
meeting for an hour and a hall, upon slavery,
emancipation, colonisation, amalgamation,
&e.
He is a most eloquent and impressive
speaker, and few men posses more attractive
powers ofcrstory.
He vMts this city for the first time, and
triU attract attention,— sn.
From the N. Y. Tribes*.
Emit ratio* la fttoaoari
_ _ Kama*, Bio.
Fa 1 end Gkeeley. There are now
met landing between 80 and 70 emigrants
•KMaa the old eeontry, (Florence.) They ate
strong and able-bodied men and women
JH *f U n within a few miles
-mo.* IhM. w.
wt 3 1
countries t«*e is no sympathy for the boot
or tor the laboring clam. With a
sittance at the time by way of
provision, they could get tit J***
from the feeling- manifested I f ear th!!‘
not be extended to them thl wIU
Th. mump i. iMi-,!,. |,„j
■"H ln |eM:!it, »rwl bf.ot, o( loe.!To„
f lhe lh
«*«*ee, and the prairie commences, or what
Sj here the Plains, and for many milS
mrritmJ U !k and •"“l I*’ 1 a,ong ,he Mo Indian
me &tat e both piame IBQbejr The
Smith*!!?’ 1 cr ?l* extremely well.
South iff independence, along down as fhi
as Port Scott, there can be no better famina
?"W- Pm.
be **«xi ptici
The California trams have all left W
hear from them nearly everyday bv s
Fe trader, coming in They
suffermg good deal from
dfc. botpe sickness among them, a Same
ars; g*v. sLt
h«ntr a e *d. One man returned on hoise
d»y Yesterday, 700 miles. The
h A e Mr?v r °o k f S Ut >m ng bem and be
A parly ot Santa Fe traders, consisting of
urne since.—l be news has just arrived here
The Indians are said to be every day becom
ing more and more hostile. Probably they
commS 0 f ,he
m u T dU K <heirCQ l ln ry by immense
u, i ,lu de who pass through.
VY# visited the Shawnee Missions. There
are three within about six milea. The first
1a Methodist, and is sustained by the Gov
erntpept. hay have three large brick houses
one the boarding-house, one for the
SC L°° r and he fora high
school for whites from the States. Th* is
under the superintendence of Thomas Job.-
holder 18 Method 9 Bhaister and a slave-
One of the chiefs of the Shawneea rent,
pari of the farm, which consists of 700 aeres
and carries on farming on a pretty large
scale. Has a large fine house and large stoek
of cattle and hotscs, and has his work mostly
done by slaves.
1 hese are sometimes as many aa 120 chil
dren in this school. Many of the young men
learn trades, and the women are taught
beside the common branches of education’
housework and needlework.
The Friends Mission is further out into
their country, and is sustained entirely by
den l t U fr~<? ho,nas k Wel,a 19 Superintend
dent. This Summer there are but 18 or 20
children in attendence. In the Winter it is
much larger. The Baptist Station we did
not visit. u
The influenee of the missionaries has been
very great A majority of this tribe are far
mers, and have considerable tracts of land
under good fence and culture, and are dis
posed to be quiet and industrious.
But this is not about emigrants. I cannot
advise emigrants to come to this state, solely
on account of Slavery. The climate is most
surpassingly delightful, and the soil cannot
well be excelled, and everything seems to be
uncommonly inviting; but Slavery like
Satan at the gale of Patadiw, stands by and
forbids entrance. Were it not for this I
should advise them to come in by millions’
lowa and Illinois are better. In these
States there is plenly of Government land for
those who are able to buy, and plenty of em
ployers for those who are not, and friends all
over and about who are ready to offer assis
tance and counsel.
1 know of but one way in which settlers
should come here stall, and that is in large
bodtes. Let them buy a township, import
1 heir own sentiments and society, and be able
to live in spue of the system of Slavery, and
it is possible they might succeed. In any
other way there is little hope.
As ever, for God and Humanity
JOHN O. WATTLES
Liberty Party Convention.
The Convention of the Liberty Party of
the State of New York, assembled at Syra
cuse on the 3d inst. W. L. Chaplin, Presi
dent, Ellis Clizbe, and Dr. Juslyn, Vice-Pres
idents; and Joseph R. Johnson, andH. Smith,
Secretaries. The Business Committee con
sisted of Geriitt Smith, J. C. Jackson. D.
Plumb J. Thomas, and A. Pruyn. The
following resolutions, among others, were
passed after discussion:
Resolved, That passing events do but
deepen our conviction, that a sectarian reli
gion is the greatest hindrance to the deliver
ance of the slave.
Resolved, That eveiy slaveholding Gov
ernment is bat a piracy; and that hence, if
pirates invade Cuba, or South Carolina, Bra
zil or Georgia, there is no more reason why
Abolitionists and believers in righteous Civil
Governments should sympathize with the in
vaded than the invading pirates.
Resolved, That the Government is deeply
unjust which disfranchises woman; which
denies its subjects the right to buy and sell
freely what they please; which permits the
sale of intoxicating diinka; which consumes
the earnings of its subjects in wars; which
tolerates or practices Land Monopoly; which
refuses to the accused or to any party litigant
the right of having his cause tried by judges
and jurors who are not members of secret so
cieties; or which sanctions or permits the
practice of the matchless crime of slavery.
Whereas, The New York Stale Temper
ance Society has, from the first, proclaimed
(hat the suppression by civil government of
the sale of intoxicating drinks is the meas
ure most emphatically indispensible to the
success of the cause of Temperance; and
whereas, at its late annual meeting, it re
considered and rescined its resolution that it
is grossly inconsistent for the friends of Tem
perance to be connected with political pat
ties which refuse to favor the aforesaid meas
ure.
Resolved, therefore, That a member of the
Liberty party can no more belong to the un
principled New York State Temperance So
ciety, than he cao to one of the rum political
parties.
1 lie following nominations for State officers
were made: For Governor, Wm. L. Chaplin
of Albany; for Lieut. Governor, Joseph
Plumb of Erie Co.; for Canal Commissioner,
John C. Harrington of Oswego; for Prison
Inspector, David Plumb of Troy.— N. Y.
Evangelist.
Secession. —The Baltimore patriot hu in
its Washington letter the following para*
graph:—
“I regretted to see the Southern Demo
crat* leave the chamber almost in a body
when Senator Seward commenced speaking,
while the Whig side of the chamber was foil.
Such intolerance (for it can be considered in
no other light,) has a bad effect upon the
Northern mind. It b a species of discourtesy
which Northern men are never guilty of—
sod which influences the North more than a
thousand speeches would be likely to do.”
Kentucky on van Compromise —'The
Southern Press says: promise.-. lh
“We have seen a letter from a well in*
formed gentleman in Kentucky, denying
®osi positively that the people of that State
we in favor of the compromise plan before
the Senate. He assert* that the late Ken
tucky Convention, instead of approving it,
refused to past the very resolution offered i&
la favor.’?
From the N.Y. Tribune.
The Count and Countess Dembinski.
We had the pleasure of a visit yesterday
fiotn the Count Dembinski, neyhew of Gene
ral Derobidski, of the Hungarian army. After
many dangers and sufferings, he has reached
this country, in company with his heroic
wife, and intends to make his home among
us, at least until a more auspicious day shall
dawn for the independence of his unfortunate
country. He has sdrved as officer of Engi
neers both in the Austrian and Hungarian
armies, and his appearance denotes the pos
session of practical energies which will, we
believe, insure him success here. The fol
lowing interesimg account of his adventures,
after the fall of Hungary, was written on
board the steamship Washington, by his
fellow passenger, Mr. G. P. R.
“The name of the gallant old General
Dembinski is familiar to all who have taken
an interest in the struggle of the Hungarians
lor constitutional independence; but it is not
so generally known that hia nephew, a young
and i.oble engineer officer of great promise,
also drew the sword in the same good cause,
and was the companion of Kossuth in all his
struggles and misfortunes. It is this young
nobleman, Count Dembinski, who, after hav
ing sacrificed all his prospects in this high
cause, now seeks a refuge on these shores,
with bis young Countess, who has shared all
his dangers and sor.ows. We have only
space to give a very brief sketch of a history,
in which every page is a romance of real
life; but the facts are these, and they are
vouched for by authority which we cannot
doubt.
“Count Dembinski, a young nobleman
from Polish Galicia, was a Major in the
Hungarian service, and during the war ol
Hungarian independence became Aide*de-
Camp to the Governor, Kossuth. He mar
ried in the midst of the troublous times which
we have lately seen in Europe, a young lady
of Temeswar, in Hungary. She, with noble
devotion, followed him to the field and re
mained in the camp for many months. At
length the vast force brought by Russia to
the aid of Austria, the suriender of Gorgey,
and the fatal battle of Temeswar, rendered
the Hungarian cause hopeless: and Kossuth,
accompanied by the young Count and Count
ess, and a few other friends, faithful to him
to the last, fled to Widden, on the Turkish
frontier.— Here they remained three months,
receiving protection from the Turkish au
thorities, it is true, but suffering dreadfully
from many privations, as well as from con
stant rumots of the demands of Austria and
Russia for their extradition, and from the
news of the cold-blooded slaughter of many
of their fiiends and companions left in Hun
gary.
“At the end of three months, they were
removed by the Turkish officers to Shumla,
an eighteen days journey, in the midst of win
ter. It is impossible to describe all that the
young Countess had to endure during this
march, being often obliged to walk on fool for
many miles, under rain, suow, and all the
inclemency of the season; but she was cheered
by the promise of comfort and protection for
herself at Shnmla, and of employment and
independence for her noble husband. All
these hopes, however, were destined to dis
appointment. It is well known, that the
Sultan made most liberal provision for the
Hungarian exiles; but it is well known also,
that his officers, with shameless peculation,
perverted the funds destined for their support,
from the proper objects; and during their
three mon’hs’ detention at Shumla, the suf
ferings of the Count and Countess were
terrible, both from privation and from the
inclemency of the weather. At first they
were placed hi »t«g« hall, pierced in every
part with unglazed windows; Out me tmenae
cold soon drove them to take refuge in a
mere hut of the smallest size, through which
the rain and snow penetrated at many points.
Treated more as prisoners of war than as
guests, their nourishment was exceedingly
scanty; and the promise of employment in
the Ottoman army to the Count, was loaded
with the condition that he should abjure the
faith of Christ, which he firmly declined.
The health of the young Countess at length
gave way undet her suffering; and she was
prevailed upon to accompany to Constanti
nople an old German lady, who had previous
ly made the most noble exertions in behal! of
the Hungarian exiles. At Constantinople,
the young lady was most kindly received by
John P. Brown, Esq. Dragoman, acting as
Charge d’Affairs at the time for the United
Stales, who took her to his own house, and
treated her like his child during three months.
“In the mean time, the Count, her hus
band, was still detained at Shumla till after
Kossuth was forcibly removed to Kentijha.
Count Dembinski was still anxious to accom
pany his leader, but he was not permitted;
and after some further detention, he at once
received the intelligence that his wife was
seriously ill at Constantinople, and be received
passports from the American Legation. The
Turkish authorities, however, would not,
suffer him to depart; and he determined to
effect his escape. Obtaining the disguise of a
hunter, he made his way, through innumer
able dangers, to Varnr, where, not daring to
embark in a steamer, he obtained a passage
in a Greek vessel, which was eight days in
reaching Constantinople. By the aid of some
friends, called forth by his misfortunes and
high qualities, he was enabled to proceed to
England in the Poltinger steamer, an<^thence
embarked in the 6teamer Washington for the
United Slates.
Sou* of Temperance.
The Question of Color once more. —That
the position taken by the National Division,
in relation to colored members, is one that
will not be sustnined by the Order in this
section of the country, is manifest. Had he
placed upon record no evidences of a deter
mination to resist that action, we should still
have abundant reason to know such will be
the case from the verbal communications
made to us. They are all of the right spirit
—they breathe a tone of honest indignation—
and if the solemn protest which thus is otter
ed is not regarded, we are prepared to see
the Order shorn of some of its worthiest mem
bers.
We do not wish to protract a discussion
upon this subject. Our own views have
been promptly, frankly expressed—and we
now give room to others, bo far as possible,
lo express theirs. But we ask serious atten
tion to what is here published. Our brethren
may rest assured that this in no excitement
of the hour, but rhe cool, deliberate thought
and action of determined men. Read the
manly letters of Beecher and Burleigh. No
tice particularly, too, whst the organs of the
Order in Maine and New Hampshire, as well
as what Aurora Division, —a leading Division
of New England,—say on this point. From
Vermont we have already heaid; and its tone
is auspicious for the right. We have no
doubt that if the matter is properly discussed
snd arranged, Maine, New Hampshire, Ver
mont, Massachusetts, Western New York
and Northern Ohio, will present an unbroken
front in resisting tbs action of the Nations)
Division. In the language uf an eminent
statesman, “we shall be glad to see it”
Ooe word to the Massachusetts Breihren.
Before another issue of our paper the quar
terly session of the Grand Division will have
taken plhce. This question, the most mo
mentous to the welfare of the Order that has
arisen since its institution, will have to be
met. We have no doubt as to the result.
But let there b« a full attendance Every
delegate should be in his seat that the action
of Old Massachusetts shall go abroad “like
the voice of many waters.” Allow us to
suggest to divisions to share in the expense
to whieb the representatives may be put by
their presence. We want to witness the
largest assemblage the Grand Division ot
this State has ever known, that the subject
nssy be definitely, yet, we trust, unanimously
and enthusiaatically settled. Shall net the
crisis now hanging over the Order receive
Iftia attention I—NVw 1 —NVw Engender.
Death of the Pieiideit of the Ueiteii
States.
The startling intelligence is announced by
the telegraph, that President Taylor expired
at Washington on Tuesday night last, at
thirty-fire minutes past 10 o’clock, after a
very short illness of diarrhoea, ending in con
gestion of the brain. The Vice-President
and Cabinet, the Mayor, and Marshal of the
District, the attending physicians, and his
family, surrounded his bed. Consciousness
returned before his death, and he recognized
the members of his family.' His last words
were—‘l am not afraid to die. I bare done
my duty. My only regret is, leaving those
who are dear to me.’ Whether he died an
unrepented slaveholder remains to be seen.
We have no room for further particulars.
His death at this peculiar crisis in the flairs
of the nation will create a profound sensation.
The Vice-President, Millard Filmore, Me!
course his successor. We fear that he is not
the man for the present emergency.—Lib
erator.
The telegraph yesterday morning, announc
ed the expected intelligence, from WashA
ton, “Gen Taylor died last night at eleven
o’clock.” Though we cheeifully submit to
divine arrangements, we cannot help feeling.l
that in the present crisis of affairs, his death
is a public calamity. We doubt not this will
be the general feeling of those who would
have a stern uncompromising man at the head
of affairs. The government tails on Millard
Filmore, precisely an opposite character.
He is a miserable time serving demagogue.
The South and the country know him to be
so, and they will run right over him. If there
is to be tiouble between Texas and New
Mexico, Filmore will throw the Government
on the wrong side of the contest, we fear.
We fear God has suffered this event, that
we may be given up to lawless power.
Every thing seems to indicate that our South
ern country, and islands, from the Eastern to
the Weaslern waters, are destined to be rock
ed by revolution and smoke with blood. Our
cruelties to the red man, and the black man,
as well as the poor whites, are eliciting upon
our land the fiercest anger of God.— Liberty
Party Paper. y
At half past one o’clock on Wednesday
morning, the following despatch was received
from Washington.
Washington, Tuesday {Night.
The President died at thirty-five minutes
past ten o’clock this evening. His death was
calm and peaceful. The Vice-President and
Cabinet, the Mayor and Marshal of the Dis
trict, the attending physicians, and his family
surrounded the bed. His last words were—
am prepared. 1 have endeavored to do
my duty."
This announcement will be received all
over the country with regret by men of all
parties. His death at this criiical moment
will have great effect upon public affairs.
What that effect may be, time alpne can dis
close. Every thing is in doubt and uncer
tainly.—Eman. Repub.
How to get an Enemy.—Lend a man a
small sum of money for a day. Call upon
him in a week for it. Wait two months. In
three months insist upon his paying you. He
will get angry—denounce, and ever speak of
you in abusive terms. We have seen thisex
peiiment tried repeatedly, and never knew it
to fail.

Daniel Webster.—Willis once said of
Daniel Webster’s style, that “every sentence!
weighed a pound.” Heie is a specimen of
the way in which the great expounder pounds
the Abolittonwts. Daniel’s dandruff is evi
dently up—ti is. To our Southern readers
the blows he strikes will seem like Cyclopean
ones, each sentence averaging considerably
over a pound—say, a fifty-six or so; while
the intended victims will laugh them to scorn,
as ponderous only with the dead weight ol
dulness:
“New England, it is well known, is the
chosen seat of the abolition presses and the
abolition societies. Here* it is, principally,
that the former cheer ihe morning, by full
columns of lamentations over the fate of hu
man beings, free by naiure, and by a law
above the constitution; but sent back, never
theless, chained and manacled, to slavery
and to stripes. And the latter refresh them
selves from daily toil, by orgies of the night,
devoted to the same outpourings of philan
thropy, mingling, all the while, their anathe
mas at what they call “man catching,” with
the most horrid and profane abjurations ol
the Christian Sabbath, and indeed of the
whole Divine Revelation. Ti.ey sanctity
their philanthropy byirreligion and profanity;
they manifest their charity by contempt of
God and His commandments.”
A Bill of Sale from the Almighty.—
Although many of our readers may have
I heard of the case indicated by the above cap
tion, yet as it is the only one, to our know
j ledge, in which a final decision was ever made
on the subject by the Supreme Court of Ver
mout, it may not be amiss at this crisis to
i tepeat it.
During the continuance of the old Tyler
Court, so called, in this State, consisting uf
I Judges Tyler, Fay and Harrington, a runa
way slave was brought before them at Mid
dlebury, when, after a hearing and brief con
sultation, Tyler and Fay put it on their asso
ciate, the blunt and fearless Harrringtoo, to
give off the decision in his own way.
f* W bat do you say you mainly ground your
alleged right to this black man upon?” .said
Harrington, turning abruptly to the claimant
standing before the bar.
“Upon this Bill of Sale, your Honor, legal
ly executed from the former to the present
owner,” replied the claimant.
“We know nothing about that,” said Har
rington, promptly, “we know nothing about
that here in Vermont. Bring in a Bill of
Sale from the Almighty, and you shall have
the Negro; else he is free as the rest of us.”
Green Mountain Freeman.
Anti-Slavery in Old Times.—h is well
known that Dr. Hopkins, the author of Hop
kinsianism, was in advance of his age in op
position to slavery—that the manifested great
zeal and courage in preaching against it while
(he Christian world was asleep on the sub
ject.—An incident is related in the memoir
of Dr. Bellamy, attached to the new edition
of Bellamy’s works, which is interesting
and illustrative of the feeling of the most con
tented slaves on the subject of freedom.
Dr. Hopkins called one day at the houst of
Dr. Bellamy, and while there, pressed on
the latter the duty of liberating his only
slave. Dr. Bellamy defended the custom of
slaveholding by the usual arguments; but Dr.
Hopkins having refuted them one after ano
ther, called on his friend at once in this case,
to act on the principle of doing to others as
he would have them do tq him.-—ln reply,
Dr. Bellamy said, the slave was faithful and
judicious, that he was trusted with everything,
and in these circumstance was so happy To
his servitude, that he would not accept of hie
freedom if it weie offered.—“ Will you
liberate him if he desire it?” said Dr. •H.
“Yes,” said Dr. 8.. “I will.” “Call him,”
said Dr. H., and at be entered he aaked him,
“Have you a kind master?’* “0 yea,” was
the reply, “very,—-very good.” “And are
you happy in your present condition?” “Yes,
master, very happy.” “But would you be
more happy if you were fteel” His eye
brightened with emotion and pleasure, as be
promptly replied, “0 yes, master, I would
be much more happy/’ “You bare ycur de
sire,” said Dr. Bellamy, “irom tbit moment
you are free.”— Purtim Records,
ID* Rev. Henry Ward Beecher has not
preached for the last three Sundays, in his
Cburcb, in oonsequeoce of ilioeaa. He ia at
present in a fair way of re%ery, and will
probably soon icturn from Hartford, Conn.,
where he is at preeent sojourning for the
benefit of hit health.
Important from Mew Mexico—A State
Government Formed.
The intelligence from New Mexico it
cheering. The people have acted with
promptness* and decision. Seeing the delays
m Congress, and fearing the aggressive action
of Texas, the people of New Mexioo have
chosen a State Convention, and formed, after
a sitting of nine days, a State Constitution,
fixing the boundaries, and PROHIBITING
THE EXISTENCE OF HUMAN SLA
VERY.
This Constitution was adopted on the 35th
of May. In fifteen daya after, an election
was to take place for a member of Congress,
and for Governor and members of the Legis
lature. Mr. H. Vrain, Judge Otterson, and
Henry Conolly, are prominent candidates for
Governor; and Capt. A. W, Reynolds and
Major R. H. Whitman, for Senators. It ia
supposed that the Hon. Hugh N. Smith,
the present delegate to Congress, would be
elected to the House of Representatives.
This is glorious intelligence. It will
change affairs. The compromise will doubt
less now be defeated. A State Government
ia formed; and whether she ia admitted into
the Union or not, New Mexico ia an indepen
dent State, ready to govern and protect the
people. Slavety ia prohibited in this State;
so it is highly probable now that the territory
wrung from Mexico to strengthen slavery,
will add to the power and strength of the free
States. Texas will threaten—the Southern
politician will bluster. Let the President
see to it that the boundaries of New Mexico
are defended againstlhe aggressions of Texas,
and all will be safe. The -people of New
Mexico have “re-enacted the will of God—
re-affirmed the law of Nature.”— Email.
Repub.
A Voice ox Warning.—Mr. Bingham, a
democratic representative of Michigan, in the
House of Representatives, made a speech-in
Congress on the 4th ult., in which, alluding
to the defeat of the Democratic party in
1848, he said:
“Mr. Chairman, others may speculate as
to the causes of that defeat. I have no hesi
tation in ascribing it to that fatal Nicholson
letter, the doctrines of which ftere received
by the people with such perfect loathing, the
loss of the north, while the slaveholders of
the south preferred to vote for the owner of a
sugar plantation, with three hundied negroes.
This was a mortifying defeat, but it may well
be borne, if it inculcates this useful lesson
that in this noon of the nineteenth century,
when the down- trodden nations of Europe are
bursting the fetters of tyranny which bound
them to the earth for ages—when every
breeze which crosses the Atlantic, waftß
with it the cry of Liberty and the inalienable
rights of man, from the uprising masses—the
Northern statesman, to be successful, must
prove true to the interests of free labor,
which he represents, instead of being an
aceesssary, to the cupidity of the southern
slaveholder, who would doom his fellow man
to perpetual pondage.”— Eman. Repub.
The Divine and Republican Institu
tion. —A friend hands us the following slip
fiom a Southein paper:
Negroes Negroes! !—One Hundred Vir
ginia Negroes will be in our mart about the
25th February next. Our partner, Thomas
Dickens, started from Richmond on the Ist
inst. We say to our friends and customers,
if they will have patience and not buy until the
drove arrives, they shall have the best ne
groes, to work their next crop of cotton, that
have ever been purchased in this market.
Among the lot there is a few choice house
servents and cooks for the city trade. Our
motto is, quick sales and short profits.
VVe also will pay the highest market price
for Negroes brought to our mart for sale.
Persons visiting our city with Negroes will
do well to see us before selling.
Bolton, Dickens Co.
Memphis, Jan 10, 1850-3 m:
This gives a faint glimpse of some of the
features of that inter-state slave trade which
has been protected for seventy years by our
Government, which the slaveites, with Web
ster, Cass and Clay at theii head, are now
striving to peipeluate by tljeir“Compromise,”
and which the (Hicksite) Society of Friends
leave unrebuked, while they memoralize
the Government against the African slave
trade, because they “cannot act In the unity”
against it.— Penn. Freeman.
A Belligerent Preacher.—Mr. Colquitt
of Georgia, who comprisese the profession
of person and politicia n—pr aching one da
and stump-speaking the next—thus let him
self out at the Nashville Convention.. He
said:
“He would advise every Southern Stale
to be moulding bullets, casting cannon, and
filling their aisenals, if need be, in order to
defend their rights. Wat he a disunionist?
The Union, he would say, could not be des
troyed; but he was not for tame submission.
The Union was dear alike to all—North and
Soulh—and if the people of the North loved
the Union, as he did, it would be preserved.
But every man, woman, and child, south of
the Potomac, were willing to die for their
rights. It seemed all to resolve itself into
this, at last; if he just knew how to ask for a
settlement of this controversy, and he could
get what he so desired, the Almighty knew
he would ask for just that much and no more.”
As a true disciple of the church millitant,
we do not know for which Mr. Colquitt de
serves most credit —his piety or his ferocity.
Doubtless he feels better, after having evi
denced the strength of his feelings. —Saturday
Visiter.
They Feel the Blow. When Gov.
Seward announcd the other day in the
Senate h» deteimination never again to vote
for the admission of a Slave Stale to the
Union, Hangman Foote jumped to his feet,
and in his desperation caught up and read,
as the most applicable thing he could think
of, an eitract fiom that naughty newspaper,
‘Garrison’s Liberator,’' to the effect that
funacious negioea flagrante bello with their
masters, are justifiable in snapping up any
four-legged animals, or other trifling con
veniences, to aid them in their escape; in
other words, that it is no breach of morals
for men, under suoh circumstances, to take
out letters of marque and reprisal on their
own hook, after the example of God’s chosen
people, when taking leave of their oppressors
in Egypt. This Mr. Footethought ttys the beat
illustration of the “high law’ of jbe Honor
able Senator from New York that h e had
ever speq, and he seemed decidedly to disap
prove of it.
Gov. Seward did not seem at all frighten
ed at being placed in company with Gar -ison
and the Abolitionists as the advocate ol a
‘higher law’, than the Constitution,bet ueated
the fiery M'ssisaippian with-silent contempt.
—4. S. Bugle.
The Winters.—Prof. Webster has con
fessed, now we wait for Danioi Webster's
confession. If the former was cruel-and
mean, the latter is infinitely more cruel and
mean. Jf the former deserves to be hung,
we know not what punishment is suitibleto
the latter. Daniel Webster has attempted to
teach his countrymen to laugh at the idea
that ‘'there ia a power above the Coaatita
tion”—and that they may compel men to
hunt and catch and hold slaves for the South
ern masters. Let him confess —how dare tyt
live and not con Teas!
Beauty or Slavery.—The following we
cut from the Charleston Courier, published in
May:—
The Slate vs. John McNee—mdtng a
Slave to run away. —The prisoner was an
Irishman, and the proof teemed to indicate
that he was rather the instrument than the .in
stigator of the elave, who was named John,
and was the property of Mr. John Nash. Th*
Jury bad recommended the defendant to mer
cy/ Sentenced to be hung, on Fnday th«
13th of September nexf.
Frot Am MmmrhmmU» Bpy.
Dissolving the Union.
We recollect an account of circumstance
which occurred ir a neighboring town, mwj
years, since, which is so apposite to the state
of political matters at the present day, that
we cannot forbear the temptation to repeat it.
A worthy citixen happened to have for hi*
partner a lady of very exacting disposition,
and withal not of the most mild and agreeable
temper. Whenever she had a desiie to be
gratified and fai led to obtain her husbands *a
assent to it by any other means, she b*d an
unfailing resource in threatening to commit
suicide. The poor man got along with this,
as well as he could, for a long time, till lie
found his ability to comply with all that was
required would soon be exhausted, when he
formed the desperate resolution, to leave
madam to her own course and see the result.
The opportunity soon ooccurred, the
usual threat was made. He very quietly
offered her any assistance she might need in
the accomplishment of her purpose. She
seized a knife and ded te an adjoining room,
where she had pieviously placed a dish ol
water for the occasion, and fastened the dooi
aftei her. Soon, a sound was heard S 6 of a
liquid falling upon the floor in a moderate
stream, then the falling of a person upon the
floor, succeeded by groans and kicking, at
first violent, but gradually subsiding, 'till all
was still. The husband thee called wldcci
son, John, and seat him to inform the neigh
boring women of what had happened and tc
aak their assistance on the melancholy occa
sion; and also to call on the nndertaker and
bespeak a coffin for his mother.
At this juncture, just at John was aboui
starting, the door, flew open, and madam
came forth in a towering passion, she de
nounced her husband and the whole family,
as unfeeling brutes, who would stand by, and
could see a fellow-being shuffle off this morta
soil, without lifting a finger to prevent it
She gave full vent to her rage, till it exhaust
ed itself, and she became calm. Her bus
band then gave her some salutary advice
appropriate to the occasion, and the result
was, a perfect cure. The threat was nevei
afterwards repeated, and |>eace and harmonj
were restored to the family.
When our politicians, instead of spending
their breath in needless eulogies on the bene
fits of the Union and thus inviting thesi
threats from the South, shall content them
selves with simply doing light, dispensing
justice with an equal hand to both north anc
south, and leaving each to its own course—
to disunion if they choose, it will soon bring
things to a crisis. It will then prove tha
those who enjoy the chief benefits of thi
union, those to whom it is a matter of almos
life and death, will come to see it in its propel
light, and will never commit the suicidal act
which, for effect they have so otten threat
ened.
The Latest from Hayti.—The schr.
Oella.Capt Claggelt, has arrived, with dates
from Port au Prince to the 31st ult. His
Imperial Highness. Fauslin I. still delights
in show and parade. He every morning
rides around the city, attended by the Gov
ernor, some of his principle officers, and a
body of guard dragoons, and the citizens re
ceive his black majesty with uncovered heads
as he passes. He has forced (with but few
exceptions) all the young men of the place
to become soldiers; and it is reported that he
shortly intends to attack the Spanish portion
ot the Island. Fauslin has purchased two
more large brigs, which he intends to con
vert into vessels of war, viz, the Danish brig
Otto and a Swedish brig. The business of
the Island appears to be improving. There
was a great deal 9! logwood in the market,
and coffee had begun to come into Port au
Prince in large quantities.
Cholera Here Again.—lt is not to be
disguised or disputed that there have been
several cases of cholera in our city which
terminated fatally within the last two days.
Considerable alarm was observable yesterday
in some parts of the city. List year on the
24th of June, there were nearly fifty deaths
per day of cholera here. Yesterday there
were a lew—very few in comparison. Prob
ably there will be but a few cases during the
year. [Cin. Corn. Monday.
The Nashville (Tenn.) Banner of Friday,
the 23d inst says: We regret that our duty
to the community as a public journalist, com
pels us to announce the reappearance of the
cholera in our city. Five cases have occur
red of a fatal character.
Resignation or Hon. John P. Hale
The Albany Journal says that the lesignation
of Mr. Hale is determined on. He will not,
however, leave the Senate while vital ques
tions concerning Freedom require his voice
and his votes. Simultaneously with his re
tirement from the U. S. Senate, he will be
come a Member of the Bar, and S resident of
the State of New York. Few men are to be
found who could occupy with credit the pe
culiar position of Mr. Hale. During his
careei as U. S. Senator, whilst standing
almost alone as the representative of a distinc
tive shade of Northern opinion, he has con
ducted with so much dignity and propriety,
and repelled the assaults of the violent de
clarers of the South, with which unfailing
good humor as to command the respect of
all parties.
Present to the Pope.—The clergy of
France have sent a magnificent incense burn
er to the Pope, as a piesent, in remembrance
of Liis return to Rome. The Liverpool Times
says of it:
“It is one of the finest pieces of workman
ship ever displayed as a result of tbe taste of
this century. It is of solid gold, adorned
with carbuncles of extraordinary size, said to
be the gift of a great lady of the Faubourg
St. Germain, whose wedding parure they
once adoi ned. Tbe chasing of the vessel is
most exquisite, representing the incidents of
the life of St. Peter, while the lid is surmount
ed with theGalic cock with expanded wings,
composed of the moat brilliant and costly
gems of every oolor.”
Human Nature. —How shall we test it.—
Whoever wrote the following, had read one
page in the book'of the human heiyt, fo some
purpose:—
“Theieis, after all, something in those
triilps that friends bestow upon each other,
whiph is sn unfailing indication of the place
the giver holds in the affections. I would
believe that one who preserved a lock of hair,
a simple flower, or any trifle of my beatowinfl,
loved me, though no show was made of it;
while all the protestation in tbe world would
not win toy confidence in tbe sincerity of one
who set no value on such little things. Trifles
they may be, but it ia by such that character
and disposition fie often wt revealed.”
Length or Day in the North. So
bright have the nights been of late, that any
evening during the last fortnight small news
paper print could be read in the open air
here, at a quarter past eleven o'clock, Lset
Wednesday night we were out testing, as
an experiment, the possibility of leading
thus at midnight, and as tbe town clock of
Wick struck twelve, we saw to read a news
paper distinctly by the unaaawfod “light of
day.” Oar geographical position is betwixt
the &6th and 59th degrees of north latitude.
—John Q’Groat Journal,
ID* A writer in tbe Peninsular Freeman
nominates Gen. Lopez far President, and
given tbe following excellent reasons why
tbe should be sustained:
1. He is a new man—therefore, will be
available;
12. He knows nothing about the Constitu
tion—therefore, will be impartial;
3. He is a general—therefore, will de
fend the Constitution;
4. He is ip fayor of Cub*—therefore, will
duty Southern aupport,
How Printers are Cm ated.— The New
Hunt hire State Patriot says that it has 4800
subscribers, and thinks that it has the best
paying list of any political paper in this
country, yet 700 owe for 3 years, 400 for 5
years, and 1000 for one year, making the
aggregate due the office 16,000 their paper,
time and labor. This is the fashion with
w hich printers are cheated.—The National
Intelligencer is said to have over $400,000
doe that ooneern from its subscribers. It
shows how many fortunes are fleeced out of
the profession.
Free Produce Meeting in London. —A
valuable correspondent informs us a meeting
of women was held in one of the Isrge com
mittee rooms in Devonshire House, London,
during the Iste Yearly Meeting in that city,
to promote the use of free labor products.. A
small central committee wag appointed, and
about fifty Frienda from the country gate in
their names ss correspondents. We trust
the work thus commenced will find faithful
laborers to promote its consummation.— Non-
Slaveholder.
Blowing up. The South will sustain
the Missouri Compromise Line. Anything
short of that will, in our opinion, blow up
the Confederacy.” —Charleston Mercury.
The Missouri Compromise Lino has been
voted down by overwhelming majorities in
both Houses; it never will pass Congress.
Where tM the premonitory symptoms of a
blow up l The Confederacy will outlive the
prophets who foretell its overthrow.—Nation
al Era.
IO” A spurious American Eagle has been
put in circulation. The Philadelphia North
American says that it is of the same circum
ference, of but little greatet thickness than
the genuine, and deficient in weight one dwt.
It is made of silver, covered with a coating
of puie gold of uniform thicknels, and is well
calculated to deceive the most experienced.—
Pathfinder.
Changes in the Cabinet. A telegraph
dispatch from a correspondent ofThe Tribune
at Washington, informs us that it is here
generally rumored that President Filmors
will form a Cabinet composed throughout of
men in favor of the Compromise bill now be
fore the Senate. Daniel Webster of Mas
sachusetts is named Secretary of State, and
William C. Dawson of Georgia as Secre
tary of War. We give the rumor simply for
what it may be wortn. N. Y. Tribune.
Slaveholders Organizing. —The Slave
holders of Queen Anne’s County—one of the
small counties on the eastern shore—held, a
meeting at thecQunty-town a few days since,
and organized a society for the protection of
slave propeily. The principal object of the
meeting was to devise measures to prevent
the absconding of slaves, and insure the re
capture of those who may give “leg bail.”
From Liberia. —New York July 9.—A
letter from President Roberts, dated Liberia,
May 17, contains the intelligence that he has
succeeded in purchasing the noted slave faclo
ty at Gallinas for $9,000. This is the last
point at which the slave trade has been carried
on for about 1200 miles along the coast.
An enormous number of slaves have been
shipped from Galinas.
Slavery in the Churches. —Strange
that it is so, yet the evidence is painfully
manifest, that the power and influence of
Slavery in the organized Churches of the
whole land, increase, rather than diminish,
with light and opposition. Their influences
are pari passu in Church and State. If they
prevail over one, they prevail over the other
also. Christianity and politics go hand in
hand.
Manumitted Slaves. —Oo Wednesday
morning, June 26th, a drove of some fifty
three negroes passed through this place, on
their way to the noithern part of the state.
They were, we understand, manumitted slaves
from North Carolina, and looked hard enough
in all conscience.
JOHN GREENLEAF WHITIER
“There,” said our driver, “is the
birth-place of John G. Whittier,”
whilst he pointed to a plain farm-house
on the edge of the town of Haverhill,
situated a short walk from the roadside,
—or, as the poet himself describes the
old homestead, “Our farm house was
situated in a lonely valley, half sur
rounded with woods, with no neighbors
in sight.”
Soon after my arrival at the busy and
beautiful village of Amerbury, where
the great poet of humanity now lives,
1 ascertained his whereabouts, and
gave him a letter of introduction, writ
ten by our mutual friend, W. A. W
an untiring co-laborer in the
work-field of reform. I found him at
home, in his modest little Quaker cot
tage, where his friends and visitors are
sure to meet with a kind reception. On
the adjoining lot is another nest in the
bushes, where a family of singers give
vocal utterance to the melody Whittier
writes. Mr. W. responded to the rap
at the door, and invited me to take a
chair, in a plain, neat room which com
mands a view of a large and beautiful
garden, where he spends a share of
his leisure time when his health will
hermit him to work there. He gave
me an introduction to his excellent
mother, and after a little chat on the
common topics of conversation, politely
invited me to remain and take tea with
him.
I knew quite well that I was in the
presence of one of the purest-minded
and most gifted men in America; a
man whose name and fame are world
wide, and “as familiar as household
words;” a man whose mighty thoughts
are winged with words of fire; but
he was so unassuming, so accessible, so
frank and so well “posted up” on all
-natters of news, that.Vhatever subject
is broached, one feels at home in the
presence of a friend whilst conversing
with him. This eminent poet of the
slave is about forty years of age. Hie
temperament is nervous-billious. He
is tall, slender, and straight as an In
dian. He has a superb head; his brow
looks like a white cloud under hie
raven hair. His eyes are large and
black as sloes, and glowing with ex
pression. He belongs to the society
of Friends, and in matters of dress
and address, he is a Quaker of “the
strictest sort.” Should a stranger meet
him in the street, with his collariesi
coat and broad-brimmed hat, he would
not discover anything remarkable in
his appearance. He certainly would
not dream that he had seen the Ellioti
of America. But, uncover his head
and see those star-like eyes flashing
under his magnificent forehead, and he
would see at a glance that a greal
heart, a great soul, and a great intel
lect, must light up such a radiant 'fron
tispiece. His* fellow townsmen art
proud of his fame, and well they mu>
be, for Amesbury will be known al
over the world, to the end of time, a t
the residence of John G. Whittier,
“the poet of the poor.”
Mr. Whittier is a philanthropist
He saw poor* down-trodden, heart
broken Humanity, with its aching head
pillowed on the snow-covered moun
tains of the North, its blistered feel
clanking chains in the rice and sugar
fields of the South, its outspread hands
and bleeding arms reaching from the
rising to the setting sun. He saw it
loaded with fetters, trampled in the
dust, robbed, beaten, and “left for
dead,” and whilst its blood cried to
heaven for vengeance, men with
crowns, mitres, crucifixes and censers
passed by on the other side, and the
bashful country boy rebuked kings,
dukes, presidents, priests, Levites,
bigots, zealots and politicians, because
they heaped qp the burden, and rive
ted the gyves, and swung th& gory
lash, whilst he cheered the good Sama
ritans who with their tears washed
away the crusted blood from the
wounds, healed the crushed heart, and
made it leap for joy, whilse they ele
vated Humanity so that it stood with
the angels. His sou) burns with fiery
indignation against oppression and all
acts of inhumanity.
Wherever he discovers the talisman
of intellect, he recognizes a brother;
“though his skin and bones were of
•the color of night, they are trans
parent, and the everlasting stars shine
through them with attractive beams.”
He knows that complexion is not a
crime, crisped hair is not a sin, thick
lips are not a transgression, and he has
bared his arms to avert the blow that
would plough the quivering flesh of the
toil-worn slave. He has heard the
wail of the distracted mother, who,
like Rachel, refuses to be comforted
because her child has been torn from
her bosom and sold into hopeless servi
tude, where her eye cannot pity his
sorrows, where her hand cannot alle
viate its distress; and he has denounced
such fiendish cruelty with an eloquence
and pathos approximating to inspira
tion. He has seen hollow-hearted
statesmen tear the stripes from our flag
and put them on the backs of our
countrymen, and he has spiced sheets
that will preserve such mummies in the
amber and pitch of infamy forever;
He has seen the fugitive flying from
the house of bondage, with hunters
and blood-hounds on his track in hot
pursuit, and he has shouted, “God
speed the slave!” until lungless echo
has repeated the cry on every hill-top
of the free North. He has seen where
the red-hot branding-iron has been
pressed on the shrinking flesh of a
freeman’s hand, until the sizzling blood
spouted from the wound, and the an
gel of his muse touched his lips with
a burning coal from the altar of God,!
whilst he immortalized the patient hero,
and annihilated everything but the
damnable infamy of the heartless,
soulless persecutors.
Mr. Whittier is a sincere lover of
truth and right, and his language is,
“In vain and long, enduring wrong,
the weak may strive against the strong,
but the day shall yet appear, when the
might with the right and truth shall
be, and come what there may to stand
in the way, that day the world shall
see.” (Pardon my drawing the lines
into prose shape. I quote from memo
ry, and fear I might do still greater
injustice to the author by measuring
the sentiment off into verse.) Such
men as he are excluded from the South,
but slaveholders can no more keep out
his sentiments thun the fool could keep
the wind out of the barn-yard by clos
ing the gate. Judging by the emotions
excited by his writting, we are led to
the conclusion that he usually writes
with tears in his eyes, but a certain
magazine publisher, whose likeness
accompanied one of the numbers of
his magazine, can testify that his satire
punishes like the sting of a scorpion.
Head the following lines:—
“A moony breadth of virgin face,
By thought unviokited.
A patient mouth to take from acorn
The hook with bank-notes butted,
Its self-complacent sleekness shows
How thrift goes with the fawne,
An unctuous unconcern for all
Which nice folks call disho nor.”
Whittier’s poetry is eloquence mea
sured with a golden reed, ‘logic, on
fire,” pathos crying in the notes of the
nightingale, philosophy playing on the
harp, humor laughing in numbers, wit
rained down from heaven in a shower
of stars* His writings are not free
from imperfections of style and senti
ment, but men seldom notice pebbles
while they Joo£ at the lights in the
cerulean arch above. He is the au
thor of several volumes of prose, which
are widely circulated. He is a man
of great versatility of talent. His
verses are full of philosophy, beauty
and sublimity. He sympathizes with
the unfortunate, and chastises the op
pressor with a whip of adders. In some
of his patriotic appeals he reminds us
of the old prpphets. Had Isaiah lived
in he might have written
the following lines without impairing Ilia
reputation:—
“Now, by our filbert* ashes! where*t the spirit
Of the true-liearted and the unshackled gone?
Sous of the old freginen, do we but inherit
Their names alone?
Is the old Pilgrim spirit quenched within us?
Stoops the proud manhood of onr tout so low
That mammon’s lures or party’* wile can win us
To silence now?
No! When our land to min’s brink is verging,
In God’s name let us speak while there is time!
Now, when the padlocks for our li|ts are forging,
SILENCF. FOR CRIME!
Some ot his best have been
published in beautiful style in Boston
lataly, but the work is so expensive the
masses are not able to buy it. His
writings do not need such costly em
bellishments to be appreciated, any
more than the sun needs a stained win
dow through which to shine. The lark
and the nightingale need not the cos
tume of the peacock to ensure admira
tion. Mr. Whittier is one of the editors
of the National Era, and I must say, in
whisper, to the ladies, he is a
bachelor. Crayton.
From the New York Independent.
A PUZZLE FOR PHILEMON.
Rev. Dr. Eli Noyes, the distinguish
ed Hebrew scholar of the Free-will
Baptists, and now pastor of the Roger
Williams Church of Providence, writes
to the Morning Star an interesting ac
count of a modern Onesimus whom he
had ‘begotten,’ not in his ‘bonds,’ but
amid the joyful feelings of one who has
escaped from a bondage worse than
death. Perhaps some of the signers
ofthe letters to Mr. Webster have been
so long strangers to the feeling of
spiritual parentage, that it would be
idle to appeal to such sensibilities as
Paul expressed to Philemon. But
there are thousands of Christian pastors,
to whom no casuistry could confute
the candid conclusion of Mr. Noyes.
A FUGITIVE FROM SLAVERY.
‘Yesterday we baptized, in the Roger
Williams Church, a man, who recent
ly escaped from one of our States,
where he was held in slavery. Now,
we suppose it was right enough for the
church to receive him to fellowship
upon a profession of his faith, and for
us to baptize him; even slaveholders,
understand, do the same. But what are
we todo with him now? Some of our
great men, statesmen, divines, &c.,
have been calling us back ‘to our con
stitutional duties,’ which they sat re
quire us to send the fugitive back to
his master. Now, we wish to be good,
peaceable and obedient citizens. We
by no means wish to favor any fanatic
ism that would destroy o'ur glorious
Union. We wish to act deliberately,
rationally and charitably in this affair,
and yet we do not see how we can send
our brother back into slavery; for, to
tell the plain truth, he won’t go, and
should we advise him to do so,and send
a letter by him, as Paul did by his con
vert,Onesimus, he would only doubt
our friendship, and we are confident
no modern Philemon of the South would
receive our epistle from his hand.
Well, considering that the man has
been sold four times, and has had a
pretty decent quantum of flogging, we
cannot blame him. He does not be
lieve that even his profession of Chris
tianity would shield him from the awful
lash, for Philemou of late has become
fearfully impartial towards all run
aways, saint and sinner—brother ac
cording to th« flesh, and brethren
according to the Spirit, must share the
same fate from his implacable hand.
Upon the whole,'we conclude that we
shall not send our brother back into
slavery till God gives us another Bible,
from which we do not read, ‘Thou shall
not deliver unto his master, the servant
which is escaped from his master unto
thee. He shall dwell with thee, even
among you, in that place which he
shall choose, in one of thy gates, where
it liketh him best; thou shalt not op
press him.’ Deut. 23: 15, 16. No,
we shall not send him back till God
effaces the last sentiment of humanity
which he has written with his own
finger upon our hearts. Neither shall
we let any one take him away. We
believe our brother is about as safe
among us as he would be in Canada.
Though many of us are great peace
men, yet we think it would be a very
difficult affair indeed for any gang of
man-stealers to kidnap and carry off
our friend.’ —x. n.
HOW A MAN FORETELLS THE TIME
or his death. I know not whether 1
sent you some curious facts respecting
vivaciousness, but I have met with
enough to lead to important physiolo
gical conclusions, and, in particular to
explain the sufficiently common fact
of six persons fixing the hour of their
death, and living exactly to that time;
the simple solution is, that they would
else have died tooner. Southey to Col
eridge, -«r
THE GIPSIES OF HUNGARY.
The food of the Hungarian Gipsies
is commonly the flesh of animals which
have died, which they consider very
dainty, and prefer to that which is
killed. They make no difference of
kind; swine, lambs, calves, game and
beasts or birds of pray, are all alike
acceptable. The only kind of work
they generally do, is in iron and wood,
for kitchen utensils. They ptetend,
besides, to cure sick cattle: but their
main resources are begging and steal
ing, in which they show their highest,
and, indeed, most astonishing talents.
We have often observed this personal
ly. They can exercise the most re
markable power over dogs.
In Hungary, every house has one
or more of those animals, of the largest
and most savage kind. It is extremely
dangerous for a stranger to enter an
unknown court yard where one of
them is>loose; but you may have the
most savage dog possible, and as soon
as a gipsy enters the yard, he appar
ently does not see him, but licks his
paw or sleeps, and immediately the
fellow stands in your kitchen or saloon,
and begs. His begging flows most
fluently from his lips: and the more
you give him, the more fluently he
begs afresh. But the thankfulness of
the gipsies is as grateful as their beg
ging is doggish and intolerable. At
houses where they receive regularly
something, however little, they fre
quently sleep before the threshold for
its security; for as the different bands
correspond with each other, they carry
out in unsion their gratitude or ven
geance. If -you have once done a
gipsy a good turn, you will never atter
be either robbed or betrayed by one
of his people. On the contrary, if you
remove afterwards, to the most distant
part of the country, and a snare be set
for you, either by thieves, robbers, or
political opponents, or even it anything
be undertaken against you by the
courts of government, you may be sure
some gipsy will stand suddenly before
you in the dusk of evening, and warn
you of what is coming. But it you un
justly treatd a gipsy, your family and
properly will be as if outlawed, the ob
ject of vengeance to every gipsy band.
The huts of the domiciled gipsies are
commonly built of clay, covered with
straw or reeds, with narrow oriental
windows, and door unfastened. Irreg
ular marrage, dirt, laziness and a con
tinual noise and strife reside within
them. The women practice chiroman
cy, or live from prostitution.
Before we speak of the higher class,
or aristocracy of the gipsies, we must
say something of their music. Who
ever has not heard the music ot the
gipsies, cannot conceive it. Meiss
ner says, ‘it is as if curiously crowned
serpents were playing in an enchanted
forest, in the clear sunshine.*
That the violin can ‘rave and weep!
one cannot conceive in its full meas
ure by hearing Paganini, Old Bull,
Sivori, Ernest, Molique, or Ghys, for
it is only the violin of the gipsy that
can rave and weep. I have often seen
rigid, or languid Englishmen, and phil
osophic Germans, when m Hungary,
introduced into a chorda (common inn)
upon a lonely ptusta, (plain) and over
fiery wine hearing the melodies of the
gipsies, suddenly spring up and dance
as the tarantula had seized them, till
the swarthy inuscians had ceased to
play, when they would sink down ex
hausted. Such an effect however, can
the violin only produce on a wild lone
ly pussta, in the midst ot nature’s
grandeur and coldness, and when the
listeners are under the inspiration of
wine.
The musical talent of the gipsies
reaches its highest grade only in the
class we have styled the aristocracy. In
this class, the change of their manners
in assuming the refinements of civili
zation is so rapid and perfect, that
one cannot see the metamorphosis
without astonishment. A fellow that
but a few months ago was brought
from among his wild companions in the
forest, unwashed, never in his life
combed, accustomed to live on dead
animals, becomes after so short a time
with one of these bands, more elegant
than a Count, more difficult to please
in his appetite than the greatest ex
quisite and inquiring more attention at
a hotel than a cabinet minister. Thus
uncommonly quick do they put on all
the forms and manners of the elegent
world*, moving with al} the ease and
assurance of born aristocrats.
But yet there is always something to
betray the gipsv nature. First, there
is the copper color of their countenance,
which the greatest care at the toilette
cannot remove, and then if you enter
his dwelling you soon see further evi
dence of his origin. He sits himself,
most likely, with bis feet stuck under
the window, fiddling.. His finest clothes
are thrown into a heap with his old
ones, all lying together perhaps, on
the floor pr on the bed, covered with
feathers. The candle is stuck in a
champaigne bottle, his pocket-book
with cigars, is lying in the spit box,
and in every thing within, there are
marks of the same Russio-elegant in
dolence which the gipsy never throws
off.
The Census Law. —The Census
Law of 1850 is very comprehensive.—
The information is to embrace the pop
ulation, profession, color, occupation,
place of birth, number of marriages,
deaths, the persons who can read and
write, deaf, dumb, blind, insane, slaves,
fugitives and manumitted; the acres of
land improved, the cash value of each
farm, the value of (arming implements
and machinery, the live stock, the pro
duce during the year ending June 1,
1850, and the quantity of each particu
lar article; the products of industry
and the value; names of towns, coun
ties, and cities; the aggregate valuation
of real and personal estate, the amount
of taxes assessed; the number and
character of the public schools, the ex
tent of the public libraries; the num
ber, class, and circulation of the peri
odicals and newspapers; the number of
criminals; the cost of labor; the aver
age price of board to a laboring mao
per week,, the average payment of a
carpenter per day, the average wages
of a farm hand; the number and value
of the churches, &0., forming alto
gether most valuable sources or public
information and reference.— „Yw York
Muror. m
