It cannot be denied that these are
most eventful times. Ancient mon
archies iire tottering; the throne ol
France has already crackled in the
hontircs of the populace; and in almost
every country of Europe, liberty is
measuring swords with despotism.—
Instead of the lamentations of the ex
iled Pole, or the half-stifled murmurs of
the Italian patriot, or the wail of the
captive from the depths of his Austrian
dungeon, wc hear the shouts of tri
umphant multitudes, as one after an
other of the strongholds of absolutism
gives way before them. Hut the worst
despot of all remains untouched.
Within twenty days’ sail of our own
shores, and amongst a people with
whom we are more closely connected
than with any nation of fhe Continent,
there still survives the despotism of the
skin, which, of all forms of oppression,
is the mo9t hateful and revolting. —j
Throned upon the Southern Alleghu-J
nies, and with a sway extending from
the Gulf of Mexico to the Potomac,and
from thff Atlantic to the great Missouri,
the tyrant holds three millions of human
beings in a thraldom that would not be
tolerated in Europe.
Negro Slavery is the worst despotism under
the Sun.
The F.uropean tyrant denies the
liberty of the Press —the American, the
liberty of the Person. The former
proscribes a certain class of newspa
pers—the latter makes it a crime to
teach a slave to read. The former
denies to his people a voiefe In the laws
that govern them—the latter makes man
a marketable commodity, steals his
child out of the cradle, and sells his
wife on the auction-block to the high
est bidder. The former strids an of
fender into banishment, or shuts him dp
in prison, without a trial—the latter
condemns a man to the life and servi-’
tude of a brute, without a crime! As 1
much as personal liheity is dearer than
political, is the bondage of the negro j
Morse than the thraldom of the Euro
pean.
But wc will allow America to speak!
for herself, in the language of one of
her principal sons. The following
epitome of the system is extracted from 1
a book published at New York, 183‘J,
eatkkrd American Slavery as it is;
Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses,”
l»y Theodore Weld, an able and cousci- J
entious advocate of human rights:
M ill prove that the slaves in
the United States are treated with bar
barous inhumanity they are over
worked, under-fed, wretchedly dad and
l ave insufficient sleep;
that they are often made to M’ear round
their necks iron collars, armed with'
prongs; to drag heavy chains and'
weights at their feet, Mhile working in 1
the fields, and to wear yokes, and bells,'
and iron horns; that they are often!
kept confined in the stocks, day and
night, for weeks togther; made to wear
gags in their mouths for hours or days; j
have their front teeth torn out or brol
ken ofl*. that they may be easily detect- j
ed when they run away that they are 1
frequently flogged with terrible sever!-
ty; have red pepper rubbed into their
lacerated flesh, and hot brine, spirits of
turpentine, Btc., poured over the gashes
to increase the torture.
That they are often hunted with blood-!
THE NORTH STAR.
hounds, and shot down like beasts, or
tom in pieces by dogs.
All these things, and more, and Worse,
we shall prove. Reader, we know
whereof we affirm -we have weighed
it well More, and worse, We will
prove. Mark these words and read on.
VVc will establish these facts by the
testimony of scores and hundreds of
eye-witnesses by the testimony of
slaveholders, in all parts of the slave
States—by slavebolding members of
Congress, and of State
bv ambassadors to Foreign Courts—by
Judges —by doctors of divinity and
clergymen of all denominations—byj
merchants, mechanics, lawyers, and
physicians—by presidents and profess
ors iri colleges and professional semi
naries by planters, overseers, and
drivers. We shall show not merely
that such deeds are committed, but that
they are frequent; not done in corners,
but before the sun; not in one of the
slave States, but in all of them; not
perpetrated by brutal overseers and
drivers merely, but by magistrates, by
legislators, by professors of religion,
by preachers of the gospel, by govern
ors of .States, by gentlemen of prop
erty and standing,’ ami by delicate fe
males, moving in the ‘highest circles of
society.'
The pledge, thus given by the author
in his introduction, is fulfilled with aw-
ful accuracy in the chapters which fol-f
low. YVe do not suppose that another!
book exists in the Knglish language,
detailing, in the compass of two hun
dred pages, such a mass of human suf
fering.
Let it not be supposed that Ameri
can slavery is much altered far the bet
ter in the nine years since this book
was published. YVe could present the
reader with a multitude of extracts
from American newspapers of recent
date, detailing similar enormities.—
They are the natural results of ir
responsible power,wielded by unregen
erate man.*
To illustrate the present American
Jaw, a a bearing on the colored popula
tion, we quote a paragraph from a Ken
tucky paper, the Louisville Examiner,
of Feb. 12th, 184*4.
Here, the freeman may be sold
into slavery forever, if he he unable to
pay a trifling fine. There it is a crim
inal offence to teach the slave to read
the word of (iod—that word which we
are commanded to study and honor—;
that word which the saviour died to;
teach. In one state, marriages are net J
allowed; the law making the offspring
of any union among slaves illegitimate.'
In none are they legalized.’’
Surely, these last two facts, reveal-;
ing, as they do, a feature of the slave-'
system, so unutterably odious, ought
to he sufficient to bring down up«»n iti
the concentrated scorn of Christen-'
dom.
V rgro Slavery is not maintain .dfor its own
sake, hut for the sake of profit.
This proposition, wc think, must be
self-evident. The lazy and luxurious 1
planter would not take the trouble to
train the negroes to his service, to drive
them to the field, and flog them at the
whipping-post, for the mere love of
cruelty; nor would he, for this, submit
to live in continual apprehension of that
vengeance which such treatment can
not fail to engender, and which ever
and anon bursts over the heads of the
slaveholders with terrific violence. No;
the planter loves the slave system be
cause he loves the gold which it brings
into his coffers. The love of gold is
the root of the evil. It is for the sake
of profit, aud not for its own sake, that
slavery is maintained.
The cultivation of cotton has been the chief
source of profit to the American slavehold
er; consequently American Slavery denies
its vitality from the cotton troth.
The American Almanack for 1848,
contains a table of the “Exports of
the growth, produce, and manufacture
ot the United States, during the two
years ending June 30th, 1846,” value
estimated in Hollars. In this we find
cotton, to the amount sf ninety-four
millions and a half of dollars, was ex
ported during those two years, besides
seven millions and a half of cotton
goods. '1 he next article of importance
on the list is grain, which, including
flour, biscuits, Stc., presents a total of
twenty-four millions of dollars, being
less than onfe-lbuttb of the value of the
cotton trade-. In considering these
figures, it should also be borne in mind
that thb Whole of the cotton is pro
duced in the slave states, and u very
large proportion of the grain in the
free.
YVb firid, by ft reference to statistics,
that American slavery has grown up,
and behotne fcohsolidated, side by side,
with the cotton trade. YY’hile there
was little coiton, there were few slaves;
and now, both slaves and bales of cot
ton count by the million. Before the
Americans were stimulated to injustice
by their cotton gains, and previous to
their declaration of independence, (4th
July, 1776,) a very strong anti-slavery
feeling appears to have existed amongst
them.
But a new era in the agriculture and
commerce of America was approach
ing—an era as calamitous to the col
ored population as that of their new
born liberties was beneficial to the
whites. Little dreamed the ingenious
Eli YVbitney, when riveting the teeth
on his admirable invention, the cotton
gin, that he whs ttt the same time rivet
ing the fetters on the slave, and the
What better indeed can br expected where tb»-
law paratiii a amrtJtr to best a »ht*e to drath, ten
et led bis iraUßStdl cos* »tibia the ilaw bot.b-t
definition of ntoderrale correetioa,*' and when it I
k further remembered that many of them menttut
Sr« perpetrated in the presence of colored pt-rtnni
wdy, tVhoM oriffcoee u inadmiiritle against the j
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF OS ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
foulest of institutions on (1m frame
work of American society, On thii
subject, we quote an article m The
Friend, No. 64, being an- abridge men)
from the twenty-firat volume of 44 Silli
tnttn’s Journal:
Negro slavery existed in the Uni
ted States Jong before the cotion-gir
was brought into use, yet at the time ol
its invention, the market was glutted
w ith all those articles which were suit
ed to the soil and climate of Georgia,
and it was difficult to find profitable em
ployment for the sieves. Under thes«
circumstances, slavery must have lan
guished, and the pecuniary value oi
slaves have suffered a great decline;
and experience sufficiently proves thal
when the price of slaves is low, eman
cipations become frequent. But the
invention of the cotton-gin, by opening
a new source of profit from the labor ol
slaves, enhanced their value, and gave
an impulse to the traffic in their per
sons from the exhausted slave States of
the north to those further south and
west, an impulse which continues to the
present day.”
We learn from the same source, that
the invention of the cotton-gin (which
is the machine used in separating the
seed from the fibre,) took place about
the year 1703. The marvellous impe
tus given to the cotton trade by this
invention, may be judged of from the
fact, that while in the year immediately
preceding, that is, in 1792, the total
weight of cotton raised in the United
States, was estimated at three millions
of pounds; in 1800, it was reported at
thirty-five millions; in 1810, at eighty
five millions; in 1820, at one hundred
and sixty millions; in 1830. at three
hundred and fifty millions; in 1840, at
seven hundred and ninety millions; and
in 1847, (as per report of the Patent
office, quoted in the Standard,) at one
thousand and forty-one millions.
Still more clearly to elucidate the co
temporaneous growth of slavery and
the cotton-trade, we give two tables,
compiled by the intelligent editorofthe
North of Scotland Gazette, and pub
lished in that paper of November 30th,
1847:
Export* of Cotton from the U. States.
Year. Lbs.
17!H>, 189,316
1800, 20.911.201
1810, 62,186,081
1820, 124,893,405
1830, 270,979,781
1810, 540,957,568
1843, -1,081,919,136
1846, -1,250,500,000
Slave loj ulation in the United Sides,
Year. Population
1710, 657,437
1809, 866,582
1810, 1,299,872
1820, 17,33,102
1830, 2,310.882
1810, 2,485,085
1843, 2,817,810
1816 3,000,000
After considering these statements,
who is there that can re sist the conclu
sion that American slavery derives its
vitality from the cotton trade? We
now approach a more home-coming
division of the subject, and to this we
invite the serious attention of the
reader.
England is the principal Customer for Ameri
can Slave Cotton therefore England is
the direct upholder of the icurst despotism
under the sun
A very few figures will be sufficient
to prove the fact, and we trust the
reader will admit the conclusion based
upon it, as fairly borne out by the pre
vious argument. We have been kindly
furnished with the following tables
by an eminent cotton-broker in Liver
pool
Crop of Cotton in the United States for
1814, 2,030,409 bales.
1815, 2,394,503
1846, 2,100,537 4 4
1847, 1,778,051 44
Average crop for
four years, 2,07G,025
Consumption of U. S. Cotton in Great
Britain in
1814, 1,113,778 bales.
1845, 1,275,293
1846, 1,263,110
1847, 818,711 44
Average consumption in Great Brit
ain for 4 years, 1,117,723 bales.
These figures, then, bring out the
fact, that we, in this country, consume
or manufacture more than half the
whole cotton crop of the United States;
in other words, that we are better con
sumers to the slaveholders than the
Americans themselves, and all the oth
er nations of the world put together.—
It is said that the fast-sailing Brazilian
steamers, now employed in the atro
cious slave trade, are accustomed to
dip their colors to the British cruisers,
as they leave them in the wake. And
surely this ironical salute is well de
served; for while we maintain a squad
ron on the coast of Africa to intercept
their supply of slaves, the Brazilians
know well that when once those slaves
are landed, we shall be good customers
for the produce of their labor. And in
like manner may the American slave
holder laugh in his sleeve at all our
thundering denunciations of slavery,so
long as we give him a premium for its
maintenance —so long as he can rely
upon us as the principal purchasers of
his blood-stained boles!
American Slavery may be overt hr me* by a
Revolution of the Spindki. A Charter for
the Xegro may be mould by a Rtf arm i*
the Cottoet Trade.
If it be true, as we have endeavored
to show, that American slavery derives
its life-blood from the cotton trade, it
follows thal if no one would buy slave
cotton, the system would fall to the
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, JUNE 23, im
ground b j its own weight. We ere
not so sanguine, however, as to hope
for such a soJation of the question, as
it would be to suppose a more gen
eral diffusion of mural principle than
this, or perhaps any other community,
can boast. But if the complete annihi
lation of slavery would be the result ot
a total rejection of its produce, it is fair
to conclude that the system would be
weakened in the same proportion as its
produce was disused. We may not
succeed in starving the monster to
death, but we may reduce his strength,
and render him less formidable.
If, by the strenuous efforts of Brit
ish and American philanthropists,
such an impression could be produced
upon the cotton market as to depreci
ate the money value of slaves, we may
be sure that the planters would have all
the less difficulty in reconciling them
selves to the idea of emancipation.—
With the assistance of the free-grown
cotton of British India, there is good
ground to believe that such a result
may be accomplished. The cheapness
of the latter,combined with its gradually
improving quality, must shortly enable
it to displace a considerable amount ot
the slave-grown article, and the benefit
to our eastern fellow-subjects will be
scarcel j less than that conferred upon
the slaves. The British West Indies,
also, produce a considerable quantity
of free-labor cotton, of excellent quali
ty. It is very desirable however, that
our trade should not he entirely with
drawn from the Americans. Recent
inquiries have disclosed the fact, that
there exists'a set of small cotton planters
scattered up and down the southern
states, who raise their crops entirely by
free labor, in the very face of the slave
system. It is of the highest import
ance to strerifithen the hands of these
honest and humane cultivators. The
Philadelphia Free Produce Associa
tion” is now sending its agents amongst
them each season, and it is understood
that many thousand bales of their cot
ton may be secured annually for the
British market, where we feel confident
it would meet with a ready sale. By
preferring the produce of lree labo
we shall encourage these honest plant
ers, who manifest their respect lor the
rights of industry, and we shall enable
them the better to compete with their
unscrupulous opponents. We shall
also demonstrate to the slaveholders
that there is a principle at work in Eng
land, w hich knows how to discriminate
between honorable enterprise and the
most grinding of all oppressions, and i
which classes the products of stolen
iao^: in the same category with stolen
goods,
The destructive character of planta
tion work at the South will hardly be
credited in this country; but according
to the evidence of respectable witness- 1
es, the whole negro population on some
estates is swept otf, used up,” as the l
term is, in six, seven, or eight years!
I
No Commercial Union icilh Skn choUhrs j
It is surely high time that a strike
was made against this monster oppres-;
sion. All we ask for its overthrow, is
a bloodless revolution—a revolution of
the spindles—a reform in the Cotton
Trade! Abolitionists in America, who!
are in the presence of the enemy, have,
various inodes for conducting the war
fare. Their religious bodies have
raised the cry, “No religious union
with slaveholders!” Their public men
are refusing political union—but to us
at this distance, the most, vulnerable
point about the slaveholder is his pock
et; our watchw-ord ought to be, No
commercial union with slaveholders!”
Depend upon it, this would soon begin
to tell.
Let us picture to ourselves the effect i
of a large order for cotton on a plants-!
tion in Georgia. Suppose the hard-,
hearted planter saying to the overseer,
“Here is an order for Liverpool, tor
another thousand bales. Be sure you
have it ready in time. A few more men
must be dragged away from their
wives, and children from their parents.
You must keep the gang going briskly,
drive the inen a little harder, and flog
the women till they faint. You must
take two hours otf their night’s rest,
and use up a few of the old negroes, if
necessary, for the order must be com-
pleted with the least possible delay.”
VVe do not say that this is the literal
working of every additional order for
slave-cotton, but beyond ail doubt it is
the virtual effect of an extra demand.
Who, then, would be a party to such
wickedness? Who would not rather
patronize the honest cultivator, who
employs none but free laborers? An,
order to the free plantation brings more
wages; to the slave plantation, more,
work! To the former it means bless-
ings; to the latter, blows! The slaves
themselves must be aware of this, for it
is said they arc sometimes overheard
praying that cotton may be low.
But it will be asked, How are the
people of Great Britain to obtain arti
cles made from free-labor cotton? The t
course is clear —ask for them. Al
ready are these untainted tabrics to be
found in the most respectable shops of
several of our large towns. Ask for
them alwavs *or *t»ern every
where, and" we shall be much mistaken
if they do not make their appearance.
But to be sure they are genuine, buy
them of tradesmen on whom you can
relv. Ask to seethe certificate which j
generally accompanies these goods, or
look for the free-labor stamp which
marks their origin. Remember the
manufacturers will not make them, nor,
will the shopkeepers keep them, unless,
there be a demand. We would remind
the working population that for this
movement to be effectual, it must be
promoted by the masses Surely a
half-penny a yard, or a little coarse
ness of feature for a tune, ought not to
be considered in esse of life and,
death! Aad may none of ua lose sight 1
of the fact, for it may serve to animate j
and cheer us on in the struggle, that so
long as the British public patronize
slave cottou —so long as our manufac
turers give it the preference —the spin
ning jennies of Manchester, with their
everlasting twirl, are twisting and
drawing closer the bonds of the negro;
and that so soon as the manufacturers
are induced to substitute free grown
cotton for the blood-stained fibre, will
every revolution of their machines be
twisting and strengthening that cord,
which is destined to bind the monster of
slavery; and which, with God’s bless
ing, at no distant time, if the friends of
freedom would unite in the effort, might
be found even strong enough to drag
the tvrant from bis throne.
H. B.
PROGRESS OP JUSTICE AND
EQUALITY.
Rochester, (N.Y.,) Jan. 1848.
Esteemed Friend Garrison;
Mr. Douglass and myself accepted
an invitation to the Printer’s anniver
sary celebration of Franklin's birth
day; and accordingly at the appointed
hour we wended our w r ny to the Irving
House, accompanied by Mr. John Dick
and another friend, The company had
assembled, and were marching into the
hall to the inspiring music of Adams’s
Bugle Bund. We arrived just in time
to unite with the procession. I had
received a slight intimation that some
j objection had been manifested by a
few, to the participation of Mr. Doug
lass and myself. This, however, gave
me but little uneasiness, believing that 1
come what w*ould, the result would!
prove no detriment to the cause of free
dom.
Mr. Douglass had no cause to ap
prehend opposition, until we had de-i
livered our tickets at the dining-room
door; when the host laid an embargo
on our further ingress, declaring that
we could not be admitted. It was in
vain that we asserted our claim to
equal treatment with others. We were
called intruders, and told, that “it was
a violation of the rules of society for
colored people to associate with whites,’,
and were threatened ejectment by the
police. By this time, our presence at
the door, the lookers-on in the entry,
and the passing of words between par-;
tics, had attracted the attention of the;
company just seated. We retired to a
drawing-room, where the pro-slavery
point was contended for by the host,
who declared that several gentlemen
had expressed a determination not to
allow us a seat with them. We were
about entering the hall to test the
question in propria persona, intending
that cecision to supersede what the
host had proffered us. Several of the
company had now gathered, some of
whom expressed regret at our treat
ment. James Vick, Jr., chairman of
the committee of arrangements, briefly j
advocated our rights. Alexander
Mann, Esq., editor of the Rochester
American, (one of the Vice-Presidents)!
nobly came to the rescue, his remarks
being loudly applauded; and when the
question was called for by the chair
man, almost the entire company an
swered Jhje. The negative was repre
sented by some six or eight, who must
indeed have felt rebuked by this over
whelming vote. The host, who but a
few moments before, manifested such
a hostile and bitter spirit toward us, i
now communicated the intelligence,;
that there was a clean vote in our
favor. You may be sure, that after
having been the victims of so much;
controversy, on entering the hall, we
were “the observed of all observers.”
It was a painful, as well as triumphant
hour for Mr. Douglass and myself for
reasons which abolitionists hardly know
how to appreciate. None but. the col
ored man, the immediate recipient of
American pro-slavery hate, can fully
testify to the emotions excited by such
a development. I care not to dwell
upon it. Let me here state, however,
that on being seated, the host offered
a string of apologies for his conduct.
Comment is unnecessary. After due
attention to the work spread before
them, preparations were made for the
feast of reason and the flow of soul.”;
Wit and sentiment, music and poetry,
each Lnt a charm to enliven the scene, j
During the volunteer remarks, Mr.
Douglass was called for, and briefly
proposed bis sentiment. Shortly after,
Alexander Mann, Esq., announced to
the company that he had a sentiment
to offer, which he hoped and believed
would be responded to by every gen
tleman present; “for,” said he, “on
occasions of this kind, we should
cheerfully lay aside all personal or
political prejudices.” After speaking
in this vein for a short time, in a
handsome and liberal manner, the best
calculated to aally any unpleasant feel-,
iug, and preparing the minds of all, he
tendered the following resolution—
Fsedcsick Docglam—W« recneniae in tXe
pruana td cukiratMi of this orator aad phifcanUtro*
(Mat, gouti augur; ot tbc eietation cf iua race.
Mr. Douglass, on rising was warmly,
greeted. He confessed himself much
embarrassed hv the coincident circum
stances of his present position but
would not conceal his gratitude, elicited
by the sentiment just offered, and so
heartily responded to by the company.
He alluded to the treatment received
by him while in England, where Men/,
not color, was the passport to the
highest circles; but that his feelings of
present satisfaction were of another.
character from any previously enjoyed. J
He adverted to his connexion with the
Press in Rochester, lo the uniformly
kind notice extended to him by the
gentlemen connected therewith, as’
also from the citizens generally, con- 1
trusting it with the abusive and pro-
i Slavery expression ot- lUe &ew ork
l Sunday Dispatch, New Y«)k Express,
Bennett’s Herald, and the Democratic
Review, fee., to which he was proud
to acknowledge this evening’* tributt
was an offset. Its recollection would
be sufficient to alleviate the bitterness
r of much past experience, and fortify
1 him with strength for the future. He
wished to add, that whatever he had
i said or done, in ielation to slavery, he
i conscientiously felt it demanded by
I love to his country, and his oppressed
and outraged brethren at the South
and the North. His speech was re*
f ceived with evident attention, and with
-,loud demonstrations of applause.
f Philemon Canfield, Esq., who pre
t sided, testified his hearty satisfaction
j with the liberal spirit of the company,
in rebuking by their vote the wicked
prejudice against color. Mr. C. is an
old Hartford publisher, who, though
advanced in years, is still devoted to
his profession in Rochester. The anti
slavery war, waged for the last eighteen
years, has indeed been prolific in these
exhibitions, and as remarkable for a
1 succession of victories, always the
reward of the faithful and persevering.
To compare the present with the past,
—those dark hours when your buele
blast was first sounded among the lulls
and valleys of New England—we can
never believe the evidence daily pre
sented of the onward progress of those
mighty principles then proclaimed to
the American nation. '1 he treatment
of the colored man in this country, is
a legitimate illustration of "hating
those whom we have injured,” ano
brings to my recollection that chapter
in Waverly where Fergus Mac Ivar
replies to his friend, when being led to
execution—‘‘You see the compliment
they pay to our Highland strength and
couiage. Here we have lain until our
limbs cramped into palsy, and now
j they send six soldiers with loaded mus
kets, to prevent our taking the castle
by storm.” The analogy is found in
the omnipotent and omnipresent influ
ence of American pro-slavery, in
crushing every noble and praiseworthy
aspiration of the persecuted colored
man. As in nature, the smiles ot
summer are made sweeter by the
i frowns of winter, the calm of ocean is
made more placid by the tempest that
has preceded it; so in this moral battle
these incidental skirmishes will contri
i bute to render the hour of victory
indeed a blissful realization,
j So sure as night precedes day—war
ends in peace, and winter w akes spring,
just so sure will the persevering efforts
of Freedom’s army be crowned with
victory’s perennial laurels.
Yours, to the end of the struggle,
WILLIAM C. NELL.
ITT The abeve letter, which appeared ii.
the Liberator shortly after the occurrence t»
which it refers, is useful as giving an illus
tration of the prevailing colorphobia, and oi
the awakening to right reason of at least tin
more intelligent portion of the community.
For reasons which do not now exist, its pub
lication in the North Star has been deferred.
It will be interesting to our readers.—j. d.
EDUCATION OF THE PEOPEE.
The Common Schools, are the most
important institutions in New England.
If there had been none such for two
hundred years past, the mass of men
would have been unable to read, and
write, and calculate; those attainments
would have been the monopoly of a few
men of superior wealth or supcrioi
natural ability. As the natural conse
quence, Agriculture would have been
in a poor state, Commerce in a poor
state, Manufactures a hundred years
behind their present condition. There
would not be the signs of life, activity,
thrill, of continual progress, visible ail
over the New England States. The
crowds which in Boston now attend the
lectures of the Lowell Institute, and
other means of instructive and refined i
amusements, would seek enter-'
tainment in a Bull-fight, or a Bear-bait
ing; perhaps in a Man-fight of bruisers
in a ring, or a Soldier-baiting on the
Common. Public lectures would be as!
rare in Boston, as in Montreal Hali
fax, or even New’ Orleans and Naples.
The government would not he a De-'
inocracy, getting more and more demo
cratic, but a Despotism in the form of j
a Monarchy or Aristocracy; a govern
ment over all, by a few, and against
the interest of the many. The Few'
and the Strong would own the bodies
of the Weak and the ‘Many in New
England as well as in South Corolina
and Morocco. There would not be a
hundred churches in Boston, tilled by j
intelligent men of more than a hundred
dtfereut ways of thinking on religious
subjects—each claiming freedom of con-j
science; but three or four magnificent
and costly temples, in which the igno-.
rant and squalid people, agape for mir
acles, ridden by their rulers, and worse
ridden by their priests, met to adore
some relic of a Saint—the pocket-hand
kerchief of the Mother of (iod, and the
nail from the cross, or from the horse
the Queen of Sheba did not ride; a
hair from St. Joseph’s beard, or per
haps the seamless coat of Christ. The
city would swarm with monks dedica
ted to ignorance and filthiness, and re
ligiously fulfilling at least that part of
their row. There would be slaves in
New England, not black slaves alone,
but white; Freedom would be in few
hands. Land in few hands} Education
in few hands; Power in few bauds;
Comfort and Virtue in few hands.—
New England might then be the Heav
en of the Rich and Noble, the Purgat«»-
ry of the Wise and the fiood, but the
Hell of the Poor and the Weak.
If there had never been any public
school for girls in New England, then
the majority of the women would have
WIUJAM C. KELL, PvblubcK
JOHN DICK,
WHOLE N 0.—20.
had the monopoly of ignorance. Tl* v
would be the slaves of the men, n
their companion*. The hardest a:
most revolting work, in the streets, th
rows and the drams, would be per
formed by the hands of sister,. W i vr;;
and mothers. Woman would be the
victim of Lust, of Intemperance, of
every crime—trod into the dust u
poisoning stiU the oppressive foot
•Vats. Qtutr. Rerirtr.
CHARLESTON, 8. f.
The X. Y. Tribute of a recent d ue
contains quite an interesting hWtr,
dated C harleston, South Carolina
Ihe subjoined arc extracts from this
letter:
“A few’ days since I rend in the Tri
bune a letter from China, that cr|.
tiai empire whose history goes back t<'
the third century, before the creation t
the world. Ihe profound nationality o
the Chinese is often laughed at, but a
is as harmless as it is amusing, and a
is by no means unique, as every visit
of this “Middle Kingdom” of our own
continent has learned. The same ego
tistical and exclusive spirit has ft
course and full dominion here in Sot
C arolina, where the people of cti,> r
j States are complacently regarded a
j “°utside barbarians,”and it is wondrr
cd that Kal-huing and his mandates
are not obeyed by all mankind.
Charleston is much like the poorer
class of towns in Southern Europe. It
j looks as if had been finished in the’sev
enteenth century, and not revisited i v
a carpenter, painter, or pavicr, un*'l
last week. The bricks used here am
sma H black, so that the newest
houses have a venerable air, and the
town would resemlle a respectable oh
village, but for a ridiculous habit c
plastering exteriors with some sort n:
composition which the climate render
shabby in a single year.
1 lie city is built upon a level,
sandy plain; and as the pavements ex
tend back only to its centre, all sorts o:
biped and quadruped cattle have f,
wade in the Sahara fashion if thex
visit the suburbs, or even some of the
most fashionable avenues. Still, inf!
delightful temperature of to-day, with
the rich f-diage of the trees in gre<,
luxuriance and the perfume of a thou 4
and beds of Hours burdening the uir the
Palmetto Capital is exceedingly pleas
ant.
“Charleston society is Johnson ion
It you have been reading Boswell or
Miss Burney, and would g| a:iC c into
the age ot which they have given n*
such entertaining and Dnguerria'i
views, conic to Charleston, and if yo
are here on a Wednesday even irx
persuade some'one to fake yon to tip!
club. may hear Plato U«
mer and EuripCdes, Cicero, Virgil ai d
Juvenal, quoted in the originals, whh
equal facility and felicity, ar d conver
sations that in eloquence, variety and
beauty, in power, compass and tone
would realize your ideas of discussm, s
in the groves of the academy. Cot
versotion in no other city of this coun
try is cultivated with so much attention
and success. I have been a freqm i t
guest of the famous Wist nr parties rn
Philadelphia, and have attended various
conversazioni* in New York and B
ton, hut have never observed in any
society more intelligence and an e
mty than in the Charleston Club—
Ihe libraries here, public and private
though, like everything else, for the
chmt part, somewhat antiquated on
good.
The Je*s have the most beautiful
place ot Worship in the city, hut Mr
Poznansky, their minister, is rich, and
anxious to resign his office. JJ w ill
he succeeded by a gentleman who is
expected from England. Poz.nansk
and his congregation are Hebrew Ra
tionalists, and there is another gocii t,
of old school or orthodox Jew* wl.
have recently erected a synagogue in
YV entworth street. Of the present
state of religion in Charleston, 1 am n t
prepared to advise yon; but there an
few cities in fhis country of which tin
inhabitants are more generally pioi
and exemplary.
The inteJJigehfce and untiring labor*,
of Mr. Gregg, a merchant hete, bun
awakened an unprecedented interest 11
the subject of manufacturing, and I
visited this morning a very large and
admirably appointed Cotton Factory,
which will be completed and in full
operation OCxf fnonth, upon Charles
ton Neck, some three miles frem the
City Hall.
There this State a large indi
gent white population, shut out from
agricultural labor by slave competition.
Por fins class the factories open a field
which they will hast*, to J_
Slave labor is entirely excluded,'and
spinning and wearing become the btiri
nessof a caste, hitherto unknown in the
South, of respectable operatives.
“Among the most important improve
ment in the city, is the introduction t
gas, just accomplish* d by an enter
prising company, whose works I visit
ed yesterday. The success of the ex
periment was at first doubted, hut is
now certain.’ 1
The Pitrr the \V*hu» hates
It is not true that the world hates piety.
Ihe modest and unobtrusive pi»*ty
which fills (he heart with ail human
chanties, and makes a man gentle to
others, hot severe to himself, is an ob
ject of universal lore and veneration.
But mankind J»ate the lust of power,
when it is veiled under the garb of
piety they bate canting and hypocrisy
they hate advertisers and quacks in
piety; they do not th**>ae to be insult
ed; they love to tear folly and impu
dence fr< in the altar, which should
only be a sanctuary ft* ibc wretch*4
aud the good. —Sidney Smith.
Notices.
Annual Meetings.
The 6th Animal Meeting of the Western
Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Sa
lem. Columbiana GC., on Wednesday. Thurs
day, anl Friday, the lCtb, IT tit, and IStb o<
August, onrun rticmg at 10 o'clock, A. M.
I*t-i full representation of the skives*
fri-nd* entt™ up on this ocraimwi frnm all
parts of th Great Wrst Ttir pnfrtwul lead
cm nrf mandiuHmg th«nr hosts Oit a conflict,
their follower* arc ratlymg hr hundreds ot
thous i. ~1*» to tlic tap port of lhc:r party ban
ner*. I’:me. and money, and labor ate ex
pc dto core their object. And shall the
J.e nds of freedom, whose faith tdiuuM b
Mi u.o u» the power of Truth, bo lukewarm
ami ui.hil -rctol while politician!* are so ear
tn s»t io th’ir labors, so untiring in thetr zeal
I h? events of tha past year should encourage
us to renew ed cTe-a, far every movement of
unjiortanee which has been made, having anv
bearing ujmki the question of slavery, fire
shadow me desTuction of tint system, aryl
tin oppressors fel that it is so. The political
p.rties will make a desperate effort to sate
themselves from th- destruction their corrup
tun tns brought upon them: and the effort*
of th? abolaiodists to maintain .and enforce
the Right should I*- proportion ably great.
Ana igeincute should bd made at the coming
me ting to eo ltinuc the anti-slavery agitation
by tho lips of the living speaker, and to ex
tend more uuljly the circulation of the So
ciety's paper—the Anti-Slavery IJngle. la*i
none of the friends who can he fli re, absent
themselves for anv light cause, for the pre
s *nec of a!!, an ihecou A l of all is desira
ble.
lie id s the friend* of Liberty in the West
who will be pn hi lit on the occasion, Henry
(WiiioiiT and iias. C. lit ri.kk.ij are ox
peeted in be in attendance, and perhaps other
representatives of the East.
LOT HOLMES,
Rr. ording So ‘y.
meetings in the West.
Ilenry C. Wright, the Apootle of Pence,
and harbs Burl-igli. the eloquent Anti
slavery A ivneate, will hold mealing* at the
following places, viz, at
Pittsburgh, Pa. June loth. 16th 17th
New Brighton, |!>lh 20th
JamisviHe Ohio 221
Youngstown, 2)th A 2,>th
New Lyme 2Tih
20th
Chagrin Falls, July Ist A 2.1
levela id, dth
Tw insborgh, 6;h
Richfield/ Bth A oth
Akron, lltli
Ravenna, l.ftli A 1 tth
Randolph, k loth Sc IGth
Massillon, 18lh
'Hie meetings at New Lyme, Cleveland,
and A.knm, will coui.nauee at ten o'clock, A.
the others, cm the first day of tho meet
i !gs al two o'clock, P. M. subsequent days
at 10 A. M.

Tl»e friends of Imi-Shverv and c.f Peace
arc requested to make al! necessary arrange
ments for the mi clings, and give as wide a
notice as possible. Now is the time to
aggate.
Persons can avail themselves of this op-j
portonitv adbrdpd hv these me .'tings to pay
fir the Anii-bi ivory Standard, to Sam'-EL
lillOOli K.
From tiie Tribune.
Remarks of Hon. Chris. Allen of Dints.'
on tLe .Nomination oTlien. Taylor.
New York June I*>, 1848. i
.V. .ors. Cr r by ij* M< Klrath: —ln your
paper ol tins day, vour Reporter of tlie
proc t'Jir.g*. of the Whig Convention rej
resents me as having taken the floor several
times on the last day of the session of that
ho.lv. moving the suspension of the Rules,
and being much excited. From the distant
and very inconvenient position of the Report
ers, I can readily account for the mistake yet.
as an aet of justice, I must respectfully ask
you to correct the error. had the floor Ivt
onre —then 1 calmly and briefly stated rev
objections to the nomination. That I might
say exactly what 1 meant to say, and that any
misrepresentation might he readily corrected,'
I put oh paper, at the Reporters' table, alter
had voted for the last time for the Presiden
tial candidate, the views I was about to pres
ent. I read from that paper, a copy of which
I send herewith and request you to publish it
(with this not a* a correct report of what 1
said. It w.;s ail I said, except a few words
thrown i s to enable me to get the ear of the
Convention. Immediately afterward 1 Jell the
Hall, and did not return to it. If any such
scene as vo; r Reporter represents, wasevl.ibg
iteo, ill which I am wholly ignorant, the actor
must have been some other than jour obedi
ent servant.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Mr. Par.stnrxr:—The discipline of the
South has again prevailed. The small minor
ity ot tb" cit z-os ol the moil who have
rontr. !h'd the General Government, except
at brief intervals, from its foundation, now
demands the i»o>sesion of Executive power and
patronage for another term four years.
The rights of the free Slates, to which
evert our opponents pay some respect, an'
trample! upon in th- Whig National Cunven
lion, by every Southern foot.—Of the many
distinguished Statesmen from the f ree
not of Southern origin, who have upheld the
Wing l a use in success and in disaster, not
one li is iKxui found worthy to receive a single
vote Sum:, of M.:s.*n and Dixon's Line. Ji
is. th'Tvf r evident that the terms of union
Ivtvvem: t!i■ "A of th- North and of the
South are the p Tpetnal surrender by the
form of tb high oiii’i s and powers of the
Governor..: t th ur Southern cir.fi r..*‘
1o tb is-* t rms 1 imk, Sir! the Free States
will no bn s r /.mil. And I dech.to this
i bmv mt’o i my h lief that lire IN hig party of
the country i- h»r.* and this day dissolved.
Wc have miucried to preserve it so lone as
i ci hi Id in deny widi tumor.—Yet, under ihe
good Piovid.mc! ct God, it mav result well
for the count -v. and for the strengthening
rmsc ot Hu nullity throughout in-.- world,
t it tin; uuuuiis should separate. '4 he
;i( pli oe.-'-s, b. t!i- of whic.b u ia suppos
I that a* Z *;i :.t to.sub -t of th M .t >l
ihe fr S*w.'l b* retained to preserve to
the So Kb ,s i ascend-ncy. w j| (Mr
wont d effi- ic V You haw put on- ounce
l.M.'itiuch upon th string back i f Nortli»tn
endurance, loti have even pm*unir-d
tie Slate wI t b led on tb first K**.o!..:soii
for lib TtV whitlow l t 111 C tie* Jof rr t
miserable boon of tb Vici -i’.< ir>
M.VSfVOV SI TTS WILT. SPfUN Tllf SU2C.
f.’crrit Smith’s Grunts.
T 1 Y. Tiibutje says that G.orge Ii
Wfvn, who !as ju!»t returned from the
t> tth-meut tiiid hv ftcv-ral colured families
*ei l.uids itencrousfv given them hr Gcrnt
Sbu tii, inform* us that Writ. A Smith, one
of th iU is. has already erected a spacious
dwelling on I_am i-ak 1 iu lowioJiip No. 2.
Ft-wkho eouniy. on the hmuu turnpike from
I>:u< Cii-iin, lain to The site
i“ a b T.iifJ, on.;, n..d .v.;r.J of the granted
locit’-i n .r .t ia v .ri-eis dir-ciiorie, and
ftM’lc a- n may v-m rfjt e’ed the rr-on hv
thee, '.b.iK’d i>v rtior sof the prHUt 'C*:,'ifjHiVg
ivh >i:i .iu i-n r" i 4 .ijl-
THE NORTH, STAR.
RCH HEM KR, JljSfc *3. Ib4?~
Tfce Liberty PaHr.
attentat U*»t u trfk iu a brand
nf this organixatton, assembled there to norm
nate candidate* fur the presidency and %ict
presidency of our Republic. It waft the fita
i convention of the kind which wc ever attend
ed and fur this and other reasons, we now
to pi to our readers some account o
.t* proceedings apd out own impress ooa con
renting 'hetn. We call this a branch of thf
Liberty Patty, mu with a v.cw to pew* ant
opinion at this time as to it* claim of bcuig th<
Liberty Party profier, bat only that we mat
he the filter understood. The Onrcntior
was large, but not so numerously attended a*
we expected. Its proceedings were spirited!
and in* -resting throughout. The speakers
were ail *trone men. The chief among then:
were G-rrit Smith, Beitah Green, Henry
Highland Gcruet, Ceotge Hradhurn, E.
Wright Jr., and Charles O. Sheppard.—
The*' though united ai the main, were fat
from h, ing so in the details. At the com
m nec-ment Gerrit Smith read a series cl
well drawn icsolutions, and two aide address
es, «mc to the free colored people of the I r»i
t«*d States and another to the members c;f the
Liberty Party, occupying in the reading a
space of more than two honrs. Any ordina
ry reader would have wearied the patience at
the audit m e and probably cleared tlio tent;
but the addresses h ring from the pen of Mr.
Smith, it appeared more like listening to an
extemporaneous speech than a carefully writ
ten address. The resolutions were of a strong
and radical character, commencing by a com
parison of the proceedings of ihe National
Liberty Party Convention, which nominated
Jam-s G. Birnev fur th? presidency with that
held last fall, anti w hich nominated John P.
Hale for that office, and denounced the 'alter,
ns a spurious convention and holding none of
the principles in common with the Liberty par
ty. Th -y affirm -d that th nomination of Mr-
Hale was ihe result of a settled determina
tion on tlr* part of certain influential members
who had been secretly manoeuvering for some
time to disband the liberty Party. The
course in Ohio on the part of Stanley Matth
ews. Salmon P. Chase., a-.d others, in frater
nizing with a mere VVilmot Proviso movement
■was declared to be a measure to break down
ar.r! ruin the Liberty Party.
The right of the plundered bondman to es
cape from his chains, and the duty of all men
to help luni escape, was boldly asserted. The
unsuccessful attempt of Drayton, Sayres, and
English, to deliver the spoiled out of the,
hands of the spoiler, was strongly commend
ed, and (i. Bliley of the National Era, for his
treatment olTll3.se noble men and his general
course since connected with that paper, was;
proclaimed an apostate and traitor to all the
great principles of the Lilieity Party 7 A re
solution was ah-o adopted almost in the same
words and expressing ihe same sentiments as
h:U adopted by the American Anti Slavery
Society, at its recent anniversary at New
York, affirming that slaveholders as sueh can
have no riglitr., that they were never created
by God, and that they are of monstrous and
diabolical origin, w vs read ami adopted bv
this convention. The adJres3 to the free col
ored people of the United States, was a most
m tore .-ting and truthful paper, which gave us
credit for our merits, hot also ptnnted out our
tshoi (comings as a people, rebuked our indif
ference to the Anti-Slavery cause, pronounced
us obstacles to th cause of Emancipation and
our own elevation. Our voting for slavehold
ers, fellowship of pro-slavery churches, our
fondness of show 7 and secret societies, and
crowding together in large cities, adhering to i
ui mini em; loymcat instead of learning useful
1 1ados, was all deplored as serving to keep
the slave it. his chains and prolong our own
degradation. \V e were counselled m the ad
dress not to he satisfied with being as good
as white people, for our eireuinstances requir
ed us to be better than they. We hope soon
to b" able to lay the whole address before our
readers, whom we are sure will concur w ith
m in esteeming it an admirable document.
The address to the members of the Liberty
Party, was a successful exposure of the apos
lacy of the Liberty Party in nominating John
P. Hale for the presidency, and the general
lecline of Anti-Slavery fidelity in the party
East and West. It urged its own claim to
lie regarded as ihe true Liberty Party plat
form, classing th* Hale men as deserters,
with mere Wilmot Proviso men —arid in no
sense to bo called Anti-Slavery men. The
idJret'i s also set forth the views or supposed
views oftlie donvtntion on various political
ipiestiuns, Free-trade,” Tariffs,” Land
Monopoly,’* “Inalienable Homesteads,
1 Freedom of the public lands to actual set
tlors," Woman's political rights,”—lter
rigM t'i vote was asserted, The ten hour
system oflabor,” was favored, ’[’he effort to
organist la'-or m France, was complacently
iliud -J to, and the Ant>s!avory character of
the Constitution of the United States was af
lirnied—and the r.glit and duty of the general
aovernuu-nt t abolish slavery throughout the
United Stiles, wNs declared uud. r the Con
stitution. Such are but the heads of the ad
i: ,it was read by Mr. Smith with great
>k:Sl, and made a deep impression on the au
lienee. Wh >n lr cat down the pajiets were
vll laid b-f>>re the convention for discussion;
.mmediutaly there arose, for what reason we
:ou!d not well dr.he, a general call for it* t<>
ipeak, with w l.i h wo did not th°n con,; ly.
Mr. Miadhun w is then loudly cailel for and
responded to ih< cal’ in a speech altogether
peculiar to hiinsr-lt, causing any ani mat uf
nenrni nt by ins droll savings—happy hit*.,
ind extravagant illustrations. He was for
die address, every point of it. The main
point of his -speech, was to fortify the addrest
in n-feren'e to its assn,option that the Co
stitutio.i i& an Ann shivery instrum nt. At
I.*.*; cloea i*t th a spe eh, wo were attain call-
E-d upon l*<r a Sjioech, but nut responding to
th call, Mr. Garnet was loudly called u|6n,
i’id ca i.e forward a.id made 3 few very excel
lent rnu irks on the addriss to the free color
ed people, but did net co.tcLde h:* r marks
ithout an unhandsome allusion to Wendell
Phillips, as allbrding argument to Favehold
irs. Again we vrcrccalled uj«»o, and though
mffenrg from a rather snero attack if tonsil
nf.aoi abort, we Mid a few words Sy w hv ol
ictfir.g oua.df ::f*d f iends ngl4 I uf. 1 the
sonvcotuisi on tI»S su’ ct of ’he Coa*| rotim
ii] Mi-i 1. Wo vi tc rej'i-d tu by Mr.
Bradtoirn, Garnet. Wright, and B* mh tie*n
JfU* Utter gewilecido, made only a fim re-
Mark* and ine CaafaSUnn adjourned, fan I>av
the door tor the meeting the next mowing.
The points relied og by oar opponent on
tfci* subject, were the objects of the Coiaiitu
l tiou, a# set f*Mhh of tb* Con
stitute *n —the absence of the trortf slave in
the Constitution—the use of the word person
t* instead of dat< in that instrument—the un
poaibiiuy of making out a case of a slave's
owing service ot labor to the slaveholder, and
the assumption that all doubt or ambiguity
ajuui the true av aning; of any kgal tnsiru*
ment, is to he taken advantageof in form of
justice and liumanitjr. Theao points were
argued with tnarh farce and eloquence by
the revetal speakers, all of whom appeared to
be quite satisfied with the correctness of their
views.
In answer to these points, wc said and say
now, with as deep a convictioaof the sound
ness of our views, as when we funned them,
That the Constitution of the United Slates,
was the guilty offspring of slaveholders —that
the justice it aimed to establish, was a justice
which permitted those who framed it to be the
vilest robbers in the world, that the liberty
which tliey meant to secure to themselves
and posterity, was a selfish and partial liberty
having reference to white men, and not the
remotest regard for tac tights of the perishing
slave, who was while the Constitution was
being framed, driven before the bloody lash of
the very men that framed it, without reward
for his toil or redress for his suffering—that
the framers of that instrument, while they
pretended to b« democrats, had taken special
pains to confer political power on the slave
holders according to tire number of human
beings they might be able to rob and plunder
of all their rights, personal, civil, social, and
political, to the extent of allowing them three
votes fur every five slaves, by which they now
have a large property’ representation in Con
gress, that they had pledged the national
arm for the protection of the slave-trade for
twenty years, and as much longer as Congress
should see fit to couqbuc the infernal traffic
that they had conferred pow er upon the slave
holder to recapture his slaves in any and all
parts of this country; that they had solemn
ly pledged the whole military and naval pow
er of the enure nation, to suppress servile in
surrections; and that this view of the Consti
tution was the universal interpretation given
to tire instrument by its framers, and those who
adopted it, and all the legislatures and politi
cal parties, a large wing of the Liberty Party
included, and the overwhelming majority of
the people from the time of its adoption until
now.”
The meeting on Thusrday was deeply in
teresting. Beriah Green made one of the
most profound and able speeches to which we
ever listened. He commenced by defining
slavery, and such a definition as made one’s
hair stand on end to hear it. The most of
liis speech was an argument in favor of what
he called government, and the qualities which
entitled a man to rule; hut to us it was a
sermon filled with glorious truths, setting
forth Christian virtues in the most clear and
powerful manner. The speech was full two
hour’s long, and was listened to with marked
attention throughout. He was followed by
Henry 11. Garnet and Gerrit Smith. Their
speeches closed the morning session. The
afternoon session was less interesting. The
Convention closed by nominating Gerrit Smith
for President, and Charles Foote, of Michigan,
for Vice President.
Our attendance at this Convention, while it
has done much to remove prejudice from our
mind respecting some of the prominent men
engaged in it, lias also deepened our comic
tion that the only true ground for an Ameri
can Abolitionist is, “Xo Union with JSlave
lIOLDEBS.”
Lncretia 31ott.
The meeting held in the Court House of
this city on Sunday evening last, by this lady
and distinguished minister of the Society of
Friends, was altogether the most satisfactory
i
reformatory meeting which we have attended
in th.is city or elsewhere foi a long time.—
The large room was crowded to overflowing

with an audience that listened to the speaker
for more than two hours w ith the most intense
interest.
S la commenced lifr remarks by saying,
it there be anything more inspiring lo the
heart of the humble advocate of reform than
another, it is that o£ being greeted by a large
and crowded assembly of people, without re
gard to sex, color, or condition. Such a
scene points us, in the largungc of the poet,
to the Good time coming.* The quick Hash
ol right and wrong around the world, makes,
it unnecessary for the Millerite to tell ns of
the coming of the miilenium, that the king
dom of heaven is now at hard. It was
when Christ was surrounded by the common
people, who heard him gladly, that he spoke
with power, authority, and was most inspired,
declaring that 1 the spirit of the Ix>rd is upon
me, because he hath anointed me to preach
the gospel to the pour; he hath scat me to
heal the broken-hearted, to reach deliverance
to the captives, and recovering of sight to the
blind to set at liberty them that are bruised.',
It was not when surrounded by unbelievers,
who expected the performance of miracles, 1
that bis mightiest works w ere done, but when
the people crowded around him, then he was
free, and spake the truth, and the common
people heard him gladly they always hear
the truth gladly, they ever love the truth.—
Thr doctrine of innate love of good I know
conflicts with the very foundation of msny
rt’igious creeds; not would I speak lightly or
ii reverend* of any one’s religious belief; but
if 1 believe, :*s 1 certainly do believe, that the
doctrine of depravity is a great error, and das
done much evil. I am fcor.rd to counteract it as
far as I can. I know it is said to he in the
scripture that man is prone to evil as sparks
to t!y upward, ar d I hare searched for it there,
but have never yet b;on abl’ to find it. I be
hove nan is much more prone to do good
than w> do ev»i, and tf thtf was a meeting
suited to such aa jovc 1 think I could
produce a# much ptoof from scripture in sup
port of this view, as can bo brought on the;
other side. What a beautiful illustration of
this truth was the bringing of a little child'
and setting it among hi# disciples, teaching
thsra that they must become hke it in purity.'
as a condition of entering into the Vir.gdimof
heaven. It was tjic pure in heart, lb* peace
maker, whom he pronounced l#U &£ed, It was
;tiO*e who bungcuM acd tbutic-d erici i.pLf-'
e-ji.sncvs that tue* approved in his prerswr.
U bis da* it mcf «pm a hukfnnf* that,
iMltxi of savaf. ai#ihf* [ilfir ma
bars, that he lad not saiJ, Wrssed we the
Ufa* makers. Bit tso. he nefw
Mwdm? to thf tules of secliSini^at; hot
first troths, wtfcb e>trvreru3|4 the htppmcas
of the whole, human familt;!* uticltd that
which was from all eternity in contra-di*tinc
-5 Him from sectarian formality; and it was seot
i that crucified him, tlKMgh they were ashamed
I to confess that it was for bis good works that
they stoned him. It was necessary for them
r to tual* *ut a ease of blasphemy him.
They succeeded in eliciting from him that he
was the of find amf on this pretended
pretext, they crucified him. It was not, how
ever, this that ftUed them with wrath against
him. It was because he called them above
th? rciigkxi of the day, and insisted upon a
righteonsnees above that of the Scribes and
the Pharisees. He demanded a life of prac
tical righteousness, opptisition to all wars, all
slavery, aTI inequality, and all oppression.—
This was the religion taught by Jesus, of
whom, when they hail crucified him, they
were compelled to say, truly this was a right
eons man a religion w hich w as so offensive
to sectarians of old. Well, it may seem a
great while since these truths were uttered,
and that very slow progress has been made.
The difficulty has been of lemoving the sec
tarian hierarchy. This has ever hindered the
cause of inform; and that hierarchy, in some
form or other, exists in nearly all the sectarian
organizations of our times.”
Here, the lamps not being lighted, we were
compelled to stop writing fur more than thirtv
minutes, which the speaker occupied in a very
able manner, defending the equality of the
whole human family, and adverting to the
many disadvantages woman has in all ages
had to struggle against. She commented at
considerable length upon the scriptural texts
supposed to disallow woman to speak in the
church, and showed the popular interpre
tations given to those passages to be both un
reasonable and unscriptural. We should have
liked to have had a thousand doctors of divini
ty in that audience. They would have ldush
cd for very shame and mortification, as they
beheld the intellectual face and heard the sil
very voice of one whose exalted powers have
enabled her to break the iron fetters which
the priesthood have for ages labored to fasten
on her sex. Mrs. Mott alluded hopefully to
tfie abandonment of novel reading, and what
is called the ladies’ department in the trashy
papers and periodicals, bv the women of the
present day, and saw in it the dawn of that
day when woman will esteem herself some
thing more than a mere plaything—a mere
appendage to man. The improvement in the
education of won an was referred to as a
source of great encouragement. There was
not probably a woman in the meeting that
did nd look with a sweeter complacency on
her womanhood, after hearing this speech
than she had ever done before. We imagined
that they must feel some thing as we did when
we heard the firtt educated colored man speak
to a w hite audior.ee.
After dwelling at much length on this
part iff her subject, Mrs. Mott proceeded to
show lhat notwithstanding the spirit of mili
tary glory that scourged the public mind, the
car.se of pence was onward. Many of the
early advocates of peace had reserved the
light to appeal to the sword in some cases,
and zoir.c may do so now but a class of
peace men were coming up lo the work
whose motto was, Resist net evil,” and
who would in no case appeal to the sword,
thus bearing the standard of p< ace slid high
er The speaker said a decided change had
taken place in family government, ami in
schools—the rad is nut so much us< d now as
formerly. The old notion about (lie necessity
of whipping children is vanishing before a
brighter ar.d higher principle. I’ersoi s have
feared that they should conflict wiih what
they conceive to be taught in the Bible on
ibis subject. There need be no such feats.—
The tenor of the Bible, is onward. It will
accommodate itself to every improvement of
the race, and will be adapted to every phase
of progress which the human family can
make. In this connection, Mrs. Mitt spoke
of the happy influence which had been ex
erted on the public mind of this country and
Europe, by the olive leaves of Eliliu Burritt,
and the writings of Henry C. Wright. The
Society of Friends, too, had done much in
promoting this cause. To he sure, they
stood not now where they ought to stand.—
Many of them had become like the rest of the
world. They read of politics with as much
avidity, and are as intent upon gaining wealth
as others. The love of money—*tho root ci
all evil—was rife, and they had become like
white sepulchres, beautiful without, but cor
rupt within, stiainirg at gnats and swallowing
camels. Still, they hid done much to pro
mote the cause of peace, temperance, and
anti-slavery.
The s ibj ictof land reform was also alluded
to, as evidence of progress, and auguring the
time w hen a phoenix shall arise out of our so
cial ruins, encircling undents wmgsthe whole
human fimily. The recent struggla for lib
erty in the old wmrld, the anti-slavery move
ment in France, the Chartist movement ir
England, and the repeal movement of Inland,
were all ha nod as signs of that time when
lie whose right it is to reign, shall reign.
Speaking of the Society of Friends, tht
preacher said that liiey too had their forms
their priesthood, and had erected among then
their idol—JSilet ce, before whom all were ex
prrtc-d to bow. Anticipating at this pom
that some of htt audience w ould not under
stand her faithfulness with he r own society
the gave filth v.hat she supposed to be thi
language of their hearts: Why, do yoi
speak against your own society Yes, wai
the r«ply, Weil, we don’t tluak much o:
any one who will speak evil of their own so
enny.” And Ido not think much of suyom
who w ,11 expose the sins of other societies
and conceal the sirrs of his own.
The speaker again adverted to the suhjeci
of pncii :ul Christianity, placing it above al
creeds and forms of worship, and deploring
the manner in whicii these were c&allei
above and separated fiuin a Lfie of goodness
Qeoamg from Wiilum Feno, she said tha
“Christian* ohm: Id be known rn ire by then
libmcse to Christ, than by their notions q
Christ.”
The most thrilling part of this long ad
dress, (to the thought* and languigeof whicl
we have done no manner of jMSt.ee.) way tha
wbudi related to slavery, '(lie oogliasi whirl
-he dr--w Utwticn the condition of ‘lie whip
scarred ami dnwirtvedden *l*ve of this country
and that «f the popr of Great lintain, while
ilahnwedJbe to be deeper juried under
dw nuns of oppression ant tyranny, it in no
e#a teamed the sympathy of tbs audience
fatsu.f t»2 humanly in tho old world. In
thih cuafiectton, |rr own experience, eight
years ago, while in Great Britain# was
brought in with good eflbct. At that lime, so
much oppressed and hungry wen the people,
that they had placed upon their banners the
terrible motto of bread or blood,” and so
eager were they for their rights that they
would forget the common decencies of life
they spurned conrenfftroaf right* tad usages,
overleaping them all; they would cuter the
meetings called for other purpose**, and force
their cause before the people; and although
it was annoying to bo thus disturbed, looking
at it in the light of a world-wide reformer,
Mrs. Mott said she n jotoed in it. Speaking
of the education of children in England, she
dealt with deserved severity on th*» limited
manner in which girl children were educated,
the most of the poorer classes of whom were
merely taught to read, the higher branches
being considered above their station in life,
and .t was said it would not do to instruct
them above their condition Still, the condi
t)»n of those, poor and degraded as it was,
is incomparably better than that of the riave
in our own land. With him. education, in
any form, is made next to impossible, the
laws prohibiting and utterly forbidding, under
severe penalties, th j teaching of slaves even
to read. The poor of the old world, too,
cotild tell of their own wrongs; they could
mix with the people; they could appeal to
t’ue sympathies, and could force themselves
upon attention —not so with the slave. Thcv
are without the right of speech, and are not
even allowed to assemble to consider their
wrongs, or petition for a redress of their
grievances. After dwelling at length upon this
contrast, with the spirit ami faith of a proph
etess, the preacher sunnrted tip the giant evils
with which the world is afflicted, and the dif
ficulties and dangers which lay in the way of
reform, and drew a picture of truth and
righteousness gloriously triumphing over them
all.
At the’close of the address, we were called
upon by a part of the audience for a speech
hut considering the lateness of the hour, the
length of lime the meeting had been crowded
together, and, above all, esteeming the impres
sion made by the address much bettar for the
cause than any which we could make or leave
on the minds of the audience, thanking the
audience for their kindness, we asked to be
excused, and at once proposed the adjourn
ment.
Mr. and Mrs. Mott left this city on Monday
for Cattaraugus, where they propose to visit a
while with the Indians.
They will go from thence into Canada,
where they mean to visit the slaves who have
sought a refuge from American slavery in that
country. May Cod bless and prosper them in
1 their labors of love, and speed them on their
1 mission of mercy. They will have the bless
ings of those who are ready to perish, and
the prayers of the sighing bondman wherever
they may travel, and among whomsoever they
i may sojourn.
i Wc arc happy to learn that it is the inten
tion of those friends of freedom and humani
ty, to return from lheir western tour through
this city. Many hearts will be gladdened by
their presence on their return.
Brutal outrage upon Mr. GarnDt.
Henry HtGrtLAxa Garnet, was dragged
from the BufFilo and Niagara Falls cars, on
Tuesday the 2i)tli insi., at Buffalo, and was
so much bruised about the face and breast
that he was compelled to defer his visit to
Canada, and to place himself under tho care
of a physician. Mr. Garnet and G. W.
Clark the Anti-slavery Minstrel, are holding
Conventions in Western New York. Tho
cause of this brutal outrage, we suppose to
be Mr. Garnet's complexion, the particulars
have not yet, however, come to our notice.—
We shall therefore delay any comments which
in other circumstances wc should feel dispos
ed to make. Bad as is our public sentiment,
wo had supposed that such outrages had for
ever ceased out of the land; but we wait fur
particulars.
EiT Mr. Holland, the Secretary of iho
Fnitarian Association, desires us to state,
that all colleges and theological schools can
he supplied gratuitously with complete B'ts
of the new edition of Dr. Chauning, bv
i
making known their wants to him at Boston,
and designating the channel through which
the}- may be sent.
.Yew England Anti-Slavery Convention.
Among the measures proposed for a con
tinued agnation of public sentiment on the
subject of Slavery, the one hundred Conven
tions received the hearty and unanimous ajc
proval of the meeting and the finance com
mittee, with James N. Buffum as its chair
man, were very executive in their appeals to
the pockets of Abolitionists, to sustain the
movement. Near 1300 hundred dollars was
1 thus obtained. The resolution declaring that
it would never be deemed out of order to ask
for money, kcjt the ma ting in an excellent
and benevolent humor while the committee
were discussing this order of the day.
Rev. Edwin Thompson impressed the hot
upon tins meeting, that tU^amoiiey was not fur
hte aid of those who appealed but would be
appropriated exclusively to advance the
causes—to secure the services of those
Pioneers who ever had been and were yet
willing to make sacrifices. If Parker Pilhv
bury, and others, consecrate tim* and energy
to the work of eulighteniug the community on
its duties and responsibilities, we, who an. in
terested, but cculd nut share with them in tlm
labor, should cheerfully bestow of our means,
and bid them God speed. Many of the anti
slavery lecturers could receive rnueh more
money in other departments, did they but
choose to preach a spunaus gospel, or aban
don the cause of the oppressed. V\ ben we
pav them for their time, we in return rcceivo
i 1
i more than an equivalent.
Samuel May, Jr., appealed to those who
t' claimed to be abolitionist*, and yet for one
long year had not contribute*! to the cause.
I fad they forgot that the slave was yet ia his
chains, and that these our measures were cai
rn la ted to bieak the feuar and fei the oppress
ed go free He hoped that they only slum
hered at their prist. He who has this world's
goods and beholds his brother m need, what
hear*, lias he if he w ithbnW* aid 'J*ho*c who
ifw* to 0# poor lend to theiJUmJ. Who ml
The post of this !mi. if not the sh#cs n» th
Scmthem p)s«talia», whs cannot akr mjm'/
much leas ray >r»/sf, my child, my Bible, mm
h>nts~ t 9 |p
(Mr. May adve*lij| to th# women of Wot
center emntv. wheat rcceal fair had produce
a noble offering to the cause—the spirit c
whom he h'iped would be emulated by man
l at this Convention.
The always exciting topic—the Pro- Slave
ry American Church and Clergy—occupied
I prominent season of debate principally parti
ci paled in by Elder Martin Cheney, of Rhodi
j (stand, Rev. Mr. Fm*nM? to New Hmmp
shire, S. S. Foster, and Parker Pillsbury
Mr. Cheney has long act*’d with the Garrisoi
Abolitionists, ami defended them from many
Cilsc charges preferred by pro-slavery oppo
nents. Mr. Fairfield ad aimed tbo faithful*
oeas of Abokuooists, tho guilt of the Church,
4 whose garments were dripping with the
blood of the slave,” but did not concur o the
h3rsh language-put forth by anti-slavery men;
but before the debate ended, it was a difficult
matter to decide who condemned slavery in
the strongest language.
Parker Pillsbury presented an incor.trovcrt
iblo argument on the evil iuthieucc of the po
litical parties, iatl the deceptions practic'd
upon the working man, the Baited support the
parties yielded to southern institutions; re
ferring, also, to the prediction* of the Liiiera
tor, eleven years a«ro, that Texas would be
annexed that the warning was unheeded
but that tlte Mexican w ar, with every other
link in that chain of prediction, had been
verified. Mr. Pillsbury, who confessed hav
ing been both a wiro-pulled and a wire-puller,
among the politicians, imparted some of his
experience, showing bow the machinery was
made to bear upon the rank and tie. lie
read some extracts lrom Wuddy Thompson's-
Notes on M' xico, expressing the contempt of
Southern nabobs tor Northern and other
workingmen. The speaker concluded with a
tribute to that class, the bone and sinew of
the nation, invoking blessings upon them (the
working men) —God's nobility.
No two men have been more aeelous or
effective in the anti-slavery field, then Ste
phen S. Foste? and Parker Pillsbury. They
have nobly confronted opposition fur the truth's
sake. Against all the manifestations of a
wicked community have they imparted the
whole gospel, that which will erelong melt
the chain from every slave on American soil.
During the Latuner war in Boston, a: d many
a time before and since, Stephen S.'Foster
has been made the victim of ruffianly, pro
slavery, mobocratie violence, and, to bis ever
lasting honor be it proclaimed, never yet
flinched from Iris god-like position. A few
weeks since, Parker Pillsbury was lecturing
in Essex county, Mass., to a respectful and
attentive audience, and lie favored them with
ia reminiscence of a visit of his to the same
place a few years since, on a similar mission,
j when his reception then was far different
fiom this; and that be bail now preserved in
his anti-slavery cabinet at home some of tiie
brickbats hurled at bis bead on that occasion.
These are the trophies of early abolitionists,
and proof of a devotion too seldom brought
to mind by abolitionists of recent growth.
The efforts of the northern Abolitionists
will live in the memory of many a slave now
in the rice swamps or cotton fields, whose
children will be taught to lisp in grateful ac
cents the names of those who, in the dav of
small things, bore a noble and self-denying
testimony.
On the l ist evening session at Faneuil Hall,
(’hailes Lenox Keinond submitted the follow
ing resolution, in support of which he made
a most brilliant and effective speech
Resolved, Tint we will never throw anv
obstacle, however slight, in the wav of slaves
obtaining their freedom in the most direct and
summary manner in their power; that, so far
1 from counselling them to be content in their
condition, we will spare no effort to make
them the contrary that so far from advising
them to bear in patience the evils of their
condition, we will encourage them, by every
righteous means in our power, to escape from
that condition at their earliest opportunity.
Mr. RcmonJ alluded to the indignities
heaped upon Ins unoffending brethren in the
1 1’ailed States, under the American Constitu
tion, det'isling the various forms of prejudice
and exclusion peculiar to the States several
ly, North and South, remarking that it was
only by allowance that the colored man ex
isted South of Mason and Dixon’s line.

He narrated the history of three young
colored tnen ho recently met in western N. V,
who bad but just made good their escape from
Souther., slavery, 1 heir persons were lacer
ated by the nun., and pierced by the bullet.—
1 hey wo:- n i:\ g iroai American Republi
canism to the ruiecUouol ilnt.sh Monarchy.
While syinj .liuiiiig with taem, he was re-,
minded of an expression ol Henry 11. Garnet,
that .he had much rather repose in freedom
under the mane of the British lion, than be
despoiled of liberty by the claws of vhc Ame
rican eagle. And how was it, he asked, with
the uoauauil) fiee color.d man of thfc North 7
Why, there wen* many, even at thin late
day, inquiring whether tliey were prepared to
receive the boon of equal rights I He com
tended that it wa« natural for a'l to love and
enjoy equal rights, and therefore unnatural to
submit to lees. Tfie colored man had too
long been the fringework of weif-ty. It was'
indeed high uin-j for him to a-scit his rights,
hi* manhood, and, in the name of God and{
justice, to make a hold strike for freedom.—
lie reminded the men who stood before hun,
that a large number of the colored people of
the United .States were leeitog more and more
sensitive «nde* their w rang a iliat they had
borne until forbearance bad ceased to be a
virtue; that, despite the towering obstacles
before them, they hid many of them about
resolved to adopt the peattment of Patrick
Henry—“ Give me liberty, or give me death.”
Mr. |i. remarked tffal he po favors, but
rights. that be was plead:i g for the greatest
as well as for the smallest men. lie pled
jor all as an American, *e> mdetxi he was one
tamaalf, and these lore united with thetu m
hope* for the salvation of hut country. He
alluded briefly to the prejudice against cuk>r,,
so prevalent in the eomtrrniitr, as being un
kind, unmanly, apd predicated open much
that ia false. Many who indulged ta this
ar,u-chu*han spirit know but Lulu or nothing
;of those they thus injured. Tbe.e mere
among the colored people aa aspiring mioda
*as themselves, who only asked feu play that
their merits might be appropriately tested.—
They had their likes and dislikes, reialtve to

jlhe white population it was not confined t«
#ne race exclusively. This prejudice against
dolor was my capri ions; her’, black waa the
bsdge of degradation but in Africa, when
j mothers wished to frighten their children,
they would point to a w hite man, railing him
the devil. There was nothing arbitrary at
all in the term. I<et but American slavery
he aboh?bee, ami colorpbohia would soon find
it* resting ?hee. As for himself, lie waa
proud of hi* complexion, much preferring to
be the blackest man that ever lived, than a
pro-slavery pile lace, who, at Congress or
otherwise, had not the moral courage to ei
t hibtt a son! oi h» ow Q when tho question of
human rights was under discussion.
Mr. Rwnqod concluded amid general ap
plause, which was much m contrast with his
appearance on Fanenil Hall platform at the
Latimer meeting. seme years since, where he
was not allowed to speak but the times are
changed since then, and they will not retro
grade in this raarrh of reform, there are no
footsteps backward.
Mr. Garrison disclaimed any belief in the
propriety of physical effort to rid the land of
slavery, tot was gratified that the remarks
had boon so well received it was proof that
the audience sympathized in the idea that all
men were equally drservii g »f liberty, and of
the same right of choosing the means to ob
tain it.
Hits article is already of sufficient length.
Next week I hope to give some idea of Wen
dell Phillips’ speech. Theodore Parker’s is
ref or led by himself at length. There were
many other profitable sayings and doings that
may not remain unsung.—vv. c. N.
DIP We gratefully acknow ledge valuable
Congressional documents from Hon. Joint
1\ Hale.
Notice to Subscribers.
Those who commenced with the volume,
and paid one dollar, are now informed, that
their term expires with the present number.
yt. R. Delany.
In answer to many inquiries tor this our
friend and brother, we say, ho is now in the
Stato of Ohio, laboring with commendable
zeal, to advance the anti-slavery movement,
improve and elevate the minds ami hearts of
our own people, and to extend the subscrip
tion rieU of the North Star. Friend Delany
will not probably be in Rochester before »ho
first of September. We should be gftid to
see hrm sooner; but the work he Las marked
out for himself wo fear will not permit him to
be here much, if any before that time.
TO COKUESI’ONDENIS.
J. S. I*l., Port Byr'n.—Star mailed regularly.
J. C.,— W. 11. M.&J, M„ Wellsville, O.—
Gratefully arkritm lodged.
1 Communications.
i
Boston, June 5, 1848,
Mn. Editor:—The principal topic of in
teTevt here, is the nomination of General
I a_v lor by the Whies.
If anything were wanting, after the quiet
submission with wltich the Northern Whigs
received the annexation of Texas and the
war with Me xico, to show their cornpleto
subserviency to the South, we have it in the
alacrity with which tiny generally respond ta
the nomination of Gen. Taylor. The Whig
papers of the North have pretended that op.
position to the extension of slateiy is one uC
the principles of the party. Many of thetu
have denounced the Mexican war as unjust,
outrageous, ar.d unconstitutional. Yet now
they advocate the election to the Presidency
of the military chieftain who commanded the
army of invasion, who, in his proclamations
to the Mexicans after the first bailies, justified
the war; who has “never yet expressed a
political opinion;” but whose celebrity has
arisen solely from his success in the war; who
i» one of the largest slaveholders in Iwiuisi
aua; ar.d who has yet to express the fust
word in opposition to t lie extension of slavery*.
Not a Whig paper “in good standing” in
Massachusetts, has refused to support the
nomination. The Boston Whig cf course
opposes Taylor; but this does not form an
exception, for that high-toned journal was
long ago excommunicated from the party.—
W'm. S. Robinson, Esq., the late editor of
the Lowell Fourier, deserves honorable men
tion. Since the nomination of Taylor, he has
retired from the editorial department of tie
i paper. He cannot, he says, as a Whig, sup
port the nomination, and retain that self-re
spect which is the most valuable of an hon
orable man’s j The Boston Jour
nal, ‘he Salem Gazette, and papers of that
stamp, which h.»vc made some pretension to
anti-slavery feeling, have fallen mtothepack,
and joined the cry like so many whipped
spaniels, ih« Courier, the most liberal and
independent sixpenny” in Boston, has thus
far preserved a non-committal course, Bat 1
have it from good authority, that although t*.»
eld< r Buckingham firmly r<fcm» to write a
woid in ia*or of the nomination, the paper
w ill finally support Gen, Taylor,
I he course of the Northern Whigs during
the last four years, shows that they are either
most cowardly poltroons, or most miserable
hypocrite*. Th y have been noisy in thin
clamor about Northern rights; they have
been justly lavish of their denunciations of (be
Democratic party for it* adhesion to slavery
arid yet, in the midst of their professions, they
go to Philadelphia, and hasten to oofdo the
Dempyrary in devotion to tbeir Southern
masters. While the Democrats nominate a
demagogue and a doughface, but still a
Northern man, who has never held a slave,
the Whig# put up one of the largest slave
holders ta America.
1 was at s Whig ratification meeting in a
neighboring city a few evenings since, where
.one of the speakers, a delegate to the Con
vention piously said he believed there was
luw*d u& VrovkioKT ip thf nomination of Gen.
iTaylor. Were it net that “God is every
where,” we should have no reeson to sup
pose He was in the Whig Convention. An
other speaker, tie Hon. Geo. Loot, of Nev
hurypert, attempted to manufacture some
thunder for himself from the fact tha.he wtaa
the only one of the Massachusetts delegation
who voted for the nomination of Taykw, thus
glorying in his shame. He tried to make it
Appear that the nomination of the General
w „7n jrrcM peril at one time in the Gonvrn
,lon ar d that if he had not come to the re»-
ril uwouldbavc been great. In the course
of h». remarks, he «id, referring to Judge
Alien and Mr. Wiiaon I do not w»h to
cast any mentation upon the other members
of the MaasaehoaetU delegation, but a* for
them, I repudiate them now and forever."—
It realiv moved my indignation to hear a crea*
-.ne hke Lnnt, the Northern man with Smith
cm principle*, the man conspicuous in the
legislature for promoting a vote of thanks tc
the American troops for their succewi in in
king the home* ©f the Mexicans, an«l
slaughtering the wormtl and children; th<
man who, a» t.'hairmanof a Committee of the
legislature on the subject of slavery, in‘cltc<i
ih« lamented FoHcn, wiio was, in h:i
characteristic quiet and ger.tlc manner, ad
dressing the eomnaUee —to bear such a man
talk of repudiating Judge Allen. A r«<-
fan repudiating a gentleman —a jackal a .ion
—would he as much in rharaet r Mr. Allen
is not as consistent an anti-slavery man as he
ought to be, but he i* incomparably *'»penor
the lion, George Lui.t, a* gei.tLman and
an Honest man.
The p,wt published a day or two ago a
correspondence between one S. I). IJradlord,
~f Roxburv, ai.d some Southern slaveholders,
touching the Jack-onh- slave-trading transac
tion. It seems that Bradford felt grieved that
Theodor* Barker, in hi* Utu r to the
People of the I nited State*,” should h ive
arnised his lamented friend of having
been engaged m one m.-tanoc in the eoniestn
slave-trade, and wrote to some <4 the Gcncr
xl’a intimate friends to get n riiulaUcn «1 t..e
slander. The refutation ruv.oimto to this, that
-instead -of the General's having driven (m
jl4l) a coffin of slaves to the South and Mild
them there, he drove a pan "from the South
to his plantation, where some f them still
jiao t out a vvr telied existence, lie took them
There rv a d.fTercnce 'twist tweed! dun
a uwedled©"!. RN'O.
Who is my Neighbor.
Tins is a question that has been asked
through th*’ world s history. All the systems
of governments that have been framed in
former times, have stummed over this
stumbling bbick into the vortex of ruin, ihe
question men asked in ibe.r imagined pros
perity, they have found answered in il.c.r
adversity. Monarchies, states, and republics
have risen, fallen, and faded; and whyl—
Because they were not founded on the great
principle of the inalienable rights of ai.j. men.
Thus men forget that however they might
frame governments and laws for th* iiifi Ives,
resting for support on enslaved millions, they
themselves were subject to a higher, a divine
government, whose decrees ar<‘ immutable.
Patriotism had indeed clung with ardor to liei
institutions, as if immortal but experience
has taught the world that i.u government can
stand, while millions in slavery, like the Is
raelite* in Egypt, an- calling unto God, day
and night for deliverance.
All Europe is at this moment receiving
practical lessons on this point. She is begin
ning to learn who arc her neighbors,
by raiher unceremonious ii.troductioi s 1
Tlu ki.ig is g-tting acquainted with his
subject, the lord wiiil b:s vassal, and
fhe master with Lis s< mint. The rumds of
all men seem to be in commotion, like a
mighty earthquake. (Jmj iiimsell seems to
say, 1 will gather the nations, and assemble
the kingdoms, to pour uj on them mine ind-g
-nalions, even all my fierce anger.'’ '1 hus
how apparent does the truth become, that the
wrath of men shall praise God. Ihe his
tory of man is a continued comment t it.
Criminal on and reeriu nation, las followed
from age to age among the nations, and a]j
of them have found it hard to kirk against
the pricks. M And can even this enlightened
Republic of the nineteenth century, escape
the punishment consequent upon slavery—upon
invasive war? I answer, No; for “he that
leadeth into captivity, shall go into captivity
he that killath with the sword, must be killed
with the sword.”
Such, O America, are the admonitions o
all antiquity Such is the course and revolu
tion of a is. Look at Mexico —at JSuut!
America, and all those dominions wrestei
from the Aborigines, by the cruel ortes, lb
xarro, a;.d the iS punish bloodhounds, ar.omarl
their present condition! I hey gaintd tlit
possessed by their posterity, by robbery
and murder! Hut alas the ashes ul Monte
suma and Jiis associate martyrs are pleading
and ever will plead, till justice is enthroned
"Those provinces have been perishing, and sld
are perishing, with the swotd used by tliei
founders to spill tlie blood ot innocence.—
What a contiast between these i rovinees ant
the culoiiy established by W iliiam I‘eim, wfit
considered the original inhabitants as belong
ing i be family of man, and having the samt
con.i.u.n bather.
Rut not all of the English colonists were
William Pem a. The red nan was w ©fully
defrauded of bis rights; and what n.ott
l consistent with tsuch ;i justice, than slavery
itself, which indeed followed the establish
ment of the American cob nil's It remains
for high Heaven to vindicate tlmse rights!—
What hope, then, is tin re fur the escape u]
this country from suffering that ruin winch
has befallen all nations that have run cour.tci
to the laws of God and la mnnity \’or.c hui
m immediate reform; for the hire of the la
borers in bondage crieth, and tl tir cri» s have
wtered into the tart of the Lord i f Sab
baoth!”
We look, tin n, to true religion to aid the
anti-slavery relbrtn m our land and this is
none othir than the true Christian church,
consiih iing ull mi n as bretfiren, whose master
ihfhriM. Powerful, indeed, would be their
influu.ee fo t c< uld the American or
thodox church be enlisted heartily in this en
terprise but ah so thought Luther, in the
oixteenth t.-ntury, in reference to the reform
needed in the Papal t hureh; but such
thought* wt .i vain. Council after council
wa* convened, under the plausible plea o<
ptakmg a chang,-f ()rUt Uut r; bu a
of aft avail; there was no true piety in the
*Wg*, Ai dis not the- lake-warm,te«
exi*tin g the present Protein dcnorr.ain
«ion*» fruits an»w., r “f omtJ out
from ttnong th*ci, my people,” aj.d ye
aeparate,"
Whftt a v**t field is tfni* open for philan
thropic effort. Surely, a j*r believe man to
tie a aocia! being, hov ing *nead and moral re-
Sjioriwbiliiir's rearing upon him, v*c rmtt also
Ixdicve that this rPspcwaihtflty devolve* upon
every mdivuk.il. (\n or out <»f the church,)
however the »i hoTC of hi* jpCu
ence it bettig h» duty to devote that influ
ence in the furtherance of every go**l enter
prise. Whatever war ary man may k i<
divest hiiuwlf of l!.i» ohhgaliott —I avft it i*
impots.ble, for every man's character haa it*
weight io the balance —every thought, word,
I «nd impure, baa reference to eternity foi
mind operate* upon mind, and like die mo
mf-nmni <*t ibe ocean wa*e, that opeiaiiof
m newvßO' Though a man exdude himaeil
entire I v from human society, still, his vert
absence fmm tf-e *qheir of his duty, will ex
j elt an influence, d. .-emmating itself through
myriad* of channel* in the world of mind,
wh<cl« the untold ag' 1 «f eternity may r.evei
exhaust. Whet sane man, th:*n, will stop te
incuire, Who is ny neighkr? What a
mighty incentive, docs he not perceive, pre
sented to every portion of the land and the
Christian Church throughout the woild It
plead the cause of truth!—to strike a mighty
blow*for emancipation, for the world, and foi
posterity f Philanthropists arise! ami being
deeply imbued wth the spirit that act uated
Jesus Christ. go forth ai d sate this people.—
Liv hold ni’ghtily on the strongholds of sla
very, ar.d ni-K.! death! Make haste to do
rood. “Speed, for the night cornelh when
no man cau v\ c-ik C. J. 13.
Svkacl'ss, June, 15-IS.
(Inondc.ga Indians.
Tins iitt’e remnant of a once mighty peo
ple, has been iiicteastn g in numbers, improv
ing in moral*, and advancing in civilization.
A l uiurian society, foriucd many years ago,
lor propagating the gospel among the Indians,
is just about to give them three hundred
dollars towards the erection ol a church, their
rm>ie irnmeunte friends subscribing five hun
drt d, and the Indians thcrr.3 lvcs getting out
th wood and stone from th ir own lands.
We are glad to know lint they are doing
well, though even now the heathen are five
to one among them so little has the neigh
borhood of Christianity effected for their con
version. It is only two years tins fall that
they have had a seltoolhouse, and their ac
commodation for preaching would not answer
for half the tribe, did it desire to attend. At
present there is «ai to be an audience of over
two nundred, in a room intended for half that
number; and Vet, all the while, ye have had
money in plenty to send abroad and build
churches, nobody knows where and these
poor creatures at our doors wa re left to perish
of famine. But, omue ignetuin pro inug
riifico,” ‘tits distance lead* enchantment to
the view**’ 11.
PniLAt-tW'iiiA, Juno 11th, 1818.
Deak Dot:class. —DoubtLssyou and some
of your readers, will be pleased to learn that
y e have achieved a glorious victory in the old
key-stone fitate. 1 will not attempt to give
you the whole particulars of the case, but will
merely state that about a year ago, two blood
hounds left the State ofMarylat.d to seek a
prey, lint they had learned was in Pennsyl
vania. They made a visit to Carlisle w here
they found a man at.d two women whom they
claimed as theirs ihey arrested them in de
fiance of our laws that kidnappers should bu
punished! 13ut thank Cod, there were a few
men, noble-minded men, that would or could
not stand and see their brothers or sisters car
ried into interminable bondage by Christian
Americans, who nob’y stood fonh mcVfer.ec
of their rights as freemen, ar.d succeeded in
recapturing the it dividends Irom the
grasp of illu cradle rubber and set them at
liberty; and during the melee, the slaveholder
was very badly injured and died lu a few
weeks—consequently a great many persons
were arrested and thrown into prison; after a
final ufa trial, Judge Uepburne sentenced
.eleven men to the Eastern Benin nuary for
three* years each committees were formed
throngliout the State, and money was raised
to test the legality of the sentence, and after
a lapse of nine months or more, these eleven
men were discharged by the Supreme Court,
on the ground of illegal sentence. So the
1 slaveholders and their abettors have been de
feated once in Pennsylvania, which I think
will bj a wanting in futute; these men have
gone home with instructions from Philadel
phia, that should otliot slaveholders pay them
a similar visit, to treat them the same way nr
form such an attachment for them as never to
i let them leave,
1 am Dear Sir, yours very respectfully in
the cause of human liberty,
6. W. GOINES.
Chicago, Feb. 4lh, 1848,
Friend I’ovclass, I embrsco a few
minutes of leisure lime, to put you in posses
sion of a few fads in rein non to the colored
people of ibis city, which may not be unin
teresting to your readers.
We have here a debuting society, which is
admirably calculated to bring out the talents
of our young men. The subjects discussed
i are of a miscellaneous nature.
1 he number of colored inhabitants in this
city i? small—there b- ing only about 250.
A circumstance occurred in this city a few
days ago. which caused considerable excite
ment. A colored man, who was thought to
be a t*py, was taken into custody. An ex
amination took place, tile result of which was
a severe fugging. In consequence of this, a
law-suit is expected, of which, if it docs take
‘place, I will inform you in due season.
In my next, 1 will give you an account of
the proceedings at a public met ting held in
this city by the colored citizen*, in relation to
the merits of the colonization scheme, as a
means of ameliorating the condition of the
free colored people ct the I ailed States.
Yours for the slate, J. J.
The Slave’* Fute.
Perhaps one cause of the comparative
apathy of the bulk of the people of England
with regard to the fate of their enslaved
brethern in distant lands, may bo their utter
inability to form a just estimate of their
condition. The Englishman has so long re-
I juiced in the blessings of personal freedom,
has so long joyfully and exultlngly declared
that no Siave could tread hu, native soil or
breathe hi* native air, that L: is only tuo
apt to be unmindful of those w Uose lot i» the
i r
exact opposite of hut ow n and secure in his
own immunity, has not sufficiently remem
bered those who are -till in bonds, an bound
with them. The oft told tale has been so
often repeated to him that there are thou
sands and of thousands of hi* b.ethifn
whom ho know# to fwMtNs the *ame fol
mg». h< pe#,de«irc# arid affection# as himself—
«ho breathe the name air. are om-eannpta!
b? the eime blue heavens, ac«l hare the
same claim with himself to address the great
C realor bgr the endearing name of Father, who
are ytt di pnted of ctcij right of humanity
—«krt.e»i the excreta of every (acuity of
nui.d. blighted in every hope of happmcM
here, and as far u human tyranny
can forbid, to hope for it hereafter he baa
to often been to’.d all this, that it w ould :d
-nu«-t acetn that the eouad whioh most at first
have fallen npon his ear like a funeral knell,
had now lost it* feat fa! meaning or rose to
l ifly unheeded amidst the mingled voic s of
jlea«ure and pain which reach him from the
depths of the troubled bilious of Life. Ilut
these things so to be Ab. surely not,
Kather rhould we endeavour to bring before
our roiiid's rye more vividly, a* day by day
[asses oi, tb’ true euadilHst of the slaves
ralher should w? endeavour to grasp, if pos
sible, the mealing of this awful word—Slav
ery. in all its fijarful actuality.
We should take our places in thoaght
at the side of the man who is torn by
bloody hands from the enjoyments of his
peaceful home —we should follow him to the
crowded and loathsome bosom of the
slave ship, #*o him exposed on the auction,
block, renumbering ever that he is a man and
far more a man than tho monsters who placed
him there: we should watch him as he beholds
the tenderst ties of love and friendship
brok 'n and trampled on go with him to the
burning plains of unrewarded and unsweet
ened toil see him in chains and under the
lash —and then go again through all these
abysses of human misery aul degradation,
and see in each fearful picture, instead ol
the manly, a female form and if by that time
the custom-hardened heart is not softened, let
it turn to those street voorg buds of
tality which gladden the fields of life in
lands of freedi rn and happiness, and hear the
wail of infantine woe, the anguished cry of
childhood 100 early tutored in experiences
which the philosophy of ripyr years has not yet t
learned lo bear unshrinking!v. And these arc
but a few of the forms of suffering under
which Slavery presents itself before us.
In order more fully to appreciate th;
depths of its sinfulness, we must print, if
we can, the midnight blackness which it brings
upon the isoul=>-the bleeps of ignorance in
which it plunges its victims—the fearful
descendings of that cloud of despair which
crushes down the fresh and bursting aspira
tions of the immoilal mind —the coldness
of that w ave which quenches, or is meant to
quench the w armest and holiest ailcctions of i
the heart, and which does its best and kind
liest work for the life at least, when indeed it
turns the burning beating heart of man into a
hard and stony mass. Such are a few of the
features of that picture which we have to con
template, if wc would ji'rily estimate the
fate of the slave, the injustice of the enslaver,
or our ow n duties wilh regard to both. Let
ns rather be willing, painful us it is, to have
this picture often before ns, than hr in d ugcr
of forgetting them and in tho midst of our
compassion irir th oppressed, let us mourn
yet mere deeply for the oppressor, inasmuch
as his is tli guilt, a.id theirs only the suf
fering. 11. M l’.
London, May 24, IRIB.

1 am not aware t what extent 4COO milesi
of distance enables you on the other side of
the Atlantic, to view the numerous events i
that havesimtiltaianootisly taken plica on the
continent of Europe, in anythi. g like a focus
with us, from the first startling outburst of
the French revolution, to the news which has 1
arrived to-day, that our ambassador has been
dismissed by the court of Spain, quickly fol
lowed by the appearance of that ambassador,
himself, incidents of the most extraordinary
nature have followed one another with strange
rapidity, and m the most direful confusion.
Those occurrences which, more than three
months since, would have occupied columns,
nav, w hole sides of the Times, are dismissed
with supreme nonehalence in half a dozen
sentences and the m in who, on perusing
his morning paper, and finding it stated
therein, that there had been a fail of one per
cent, m the slocks, would have frightened his
family with astonished exclamations, now
reads, with the utmost unconcern, accounts of
armed mob intervention—of an engagement
involving the h>&s of thousands—of the fright
of an emperor or tho ruin of a dynasty.
With the striking events of the last two
months, your readers are of course already
familiar, and I need not recapitulate them
but I will endeavor to give you a slight review
ut'the present state of Jvaropo. France ex
tinguished a corrupt government in a few
days, stood erect from anarchy bui in her
attempts at reconstruction, she liu* not failed
to endure tiiosa convulsive movements w hich
aie incident on all revolutions, and which bear
the same relation to the gradual development
of institutions in more favored countries,
which the galvanic plunges of a revitalized
body do to the regular function? of ordinary
existence. She lias, however, recently de
feated a conspiracy of the utmost danger to
peace and'order and the attituda her gov.
eminent assumed on that occasion, although
not so firm as it might have been, has yet in
spired men with a greater conviction of her
stability titan they have hnUeito entertained.
She is, in the labor question, attempting im
possibilities, trom which the ruin<.us results
ought by this time t.i t>« well known.
The question involved in Italian independ
ence, is far less that of government than of
race. I allude more especially to the revolt
of the Lo:abarJo*4 euetian kingdom. The
extinction of a foreign domination will pro
bably uivolic a re-establishment of native
rule, tu tho shape of monarchy, divested,
however, of the oppressive character it has
assumed in the hands of the Austrian. The
threatened deposition of a Pope who hae
volunteered each concessions to the spirit of
the time?, because h? refused to plunge into
war, was a step raoit ungeneftms arid utterly
unworthy the cause of liberty with which it
was associated. I was, you know, in Milan
last aututtui, and by nu means pi wuie myself
oa tho prophetic power* which induced no
absolutely to predict a desperate revolt there
in the course of a f-*w tmuitha. Eighteen
thousand troop# in a city net cnataMuag nearly
tw ice that number of male adult inhabitants,
were mauffieient to keep down the fierce roa
tempt of foreign rule which manifested itself
on every trfiiv.g o'**a -rin. The Tv* J, iot»
1 At -.i -A— ._.
wxnrn me a uju uu luiiiiiniiui'i bt p^y^Pfiif*
to retreat, IB ti»t «r«rreßce of any derate
event in the campsign now pending between,
himself vml the King »f Sardinia, baa long
been Itn nm a* the aw»* faithful d eader of j
the hm*v* of Austria> lnws*cd tax** and,
diminished prfvHegrs hit***, however, uerved
to reduce the f. rror of tbir loruhy discon
tent has prevailed there for same time past.
The Hereditary States, that have, fur sm long’
hda torpid, have suddenly burst into a fervor
of democratic enthusiasm; they have fhg.it
ened away, first their Munster, and now ihe»
Emperor, who has fled with ail Lai fame. to
Innspruek.
In Hungary nnd Bobvmia. popular f alirf
1 is quite as strong—in fheto instances com
bined with an idea of nationality,
j Tha funnent cl (fisa*f*ctlnn Ins not f.tSed, 1
u% you are aware, t<» extend to Pcdar.d—a
country whose misdirected struggle* are b n
too likely to injure the great cans* of lu«ro
pcaa progress The Fob s, in tixa best days,
were not 'd for their inrbuleat ferocity; and
in their Wiiret. tins natural characteristic, at
1 *ast, docs not fail them. Tlie conduct of the
King of Prussia towards the Poles under his
ml?, his hern more oonciliatory than might
luive Seen exp.cted. IK* espiroa to lie a great
man, ami might hav; b>-cn so, b-jit fur his
want of luck, ia being just a mor.tb behind
the tunes. Much,of blauie for the unhappy
slaughter which not long since occurred at
Ikritn, can scarcely be attributed to him. It
aroso, I believe, from first to last, item a de
plorable misapprehension. lhe conduct
which lias involved him in a w ar with Den
mark is far more reprehensible. The gener
ally prevailing opinion that even according to
the ordinaiy maxims of international war,
the Danes are a very ill used people, is, I
believe, the true or.e. To give you tlie
details of the quarrel in anything like rea
sonable limits, is out of the question; so I
forbear. One country, amid all tfce vast up
heaving of this mural earthquake, remains
sternly unmoved. The Czar has assembled
some vast masses of his colossal army on his
frontier, but has made no movement of ag
gression, lie is reported ‘to have indulged
in seme bitter gibes at the expense of the
new government cf Fran?’, which lie terms
mud-begottea.*’ 110 oe mgies, perhaps, as
important a posiuuu as any man in the world.
The want of funds, which some time since
proved such a source of weakness to the
Russian empire, has been obviated. The
gold of the Trahan mountains affords a great
yearly increase to his now enormous revenue.
In every war that may occur, he will be an
agent at once prominent and powerful.
To return onto more to the south (for I
find that I have omitted the Peninsula,) the
queen of Portugal is but maintained at all by
the determined support of our government,
evinced by the imposing altitude of its all
powerful fleet. Spain has again been the
the theatre of two attempted revolutions of
military origin, which have been succ-Safi.il/
extinguished ia blood. Fora pungent remon
strance, addressed to the Spanish govern
ment, on their oppressively arbitrary system,
previous to th outbreak of the first of these,
Lord Palmerston has incurred (in niv opinion
very unjustly.) great odium. For a supposed
participation in the second, (bow truly as yet
is not known.) our ambassador has been
driven from Madrid. I find I must leave all
reference to England, until my nc?.t.
S. P. Q. R.
London, May 31, 1848.
L)ft.\ji Sir. —Pi ;ny lart letter, 1 mentioned
that Mr. Mitclrbli, the editor of the i idled
Irish.nan,” was undergoing histtial fi>r lblony
under the recently passed li Crown and Gov
ernment Security iiii!.” Tho jury having
returned a verdict of guilty,’’ li3 was sen
tenced to fourteen years’ transportation, and
was, next day, after a very affecting farewell
interview with his wife and family, taken,
under an escort of dragoons, on board a ship
bound for Spike Island, near Cork, there to
await the sailing of a convict vessel. 'llia
scene in court at the passing of sentence,
was most extraordinary. From all quarters
of the court, people pressed forward to shake
hands wiih him, smile threw bouquets of
floweio, Barristers in their sober gowns and
wigs, jumped over the table, in order to give
a last expression to their sympathy with the
prisoner; the judge who p issed sentence,
hastily left the bench, but Tt turned in a few
minutes, while the other who remained,
could not conceal his emotion. Several per
sons were taken into custody for these mani
festations, which were considered a contempt
of court; but were shortly after liberated.
Mr. Holmes, Mr. Mitchell's counsel, who
had defended hij> client, merely on the prin
ciple that tho English government in Ireland
being an usurpation, it couid not be w rong to
wage war, or to excite to w ar against it; aad
then said, that every word he had uttered, as
Mr. Mitchell's advocate, was the expression
of his own deliberate conviction, for which he
was individually responsible, a:.d that the
Attorney General might pros cute him i! he
chose. The judge iuimodiaudy called upon
the court to proceed with otocr business.
Feeling strongly, as i do, the bitter wrongs
and oppressions uuder which Ireland has so
long groaned, it is mq>ossible for ino not in
sympathize even with lfe’se whom a eimhar
feeling has goaded on to madness or to crime.
Without, thenfofo, defending Mr. Mitchell,
whose grand aim lit all his writings, was to
prepare Ireland for an armed revolt against
the there can be no doubt that
the JlnuGi gaxerirae* is tho £r-t and great
criminal. £>cvca Out of nine tuiliiofis of l«m
Irish, are Ilonas Lothouc* yet not a single
Roman Catholic was allowed to mt on Mr.
Mitchell's j*rry. Every Irishman is either a
Repealer or an Ami-repealer; the majority,
it cannot be doubted, are Repealers; jet the
government w wild not allow, and they avow
it, a single Repealer to sit upon the jury so
that Mr. Mitchell’s jury was composed
entirely »f his enemies. The government
could not find, if they had wished it, an
ferent jury; they dared cut uy lum by one
impartially *e!ected. This fact alone n> suf
ficiently coodu»»e evidence that Ireland fe
the victim of u»j«* a l oppressive gov
ernment.
It is pleasant to turn from the contemph*
tun of these ace»<» injustice and
quent lebelliao, to tha first annual «i
the Butish br»a~b of the League of Lei
versa! Brotherhood, which was held lari
n ght in the Halt of Coamar**. *rc*
meut EomercurTy at a revpfrtaVj attgukd
-r? i 4 t
i t* 1 i**- ffli
oihji mw*ir»j»n» m T p„„
spooling Secretary, resd an eloquent report,
full q( th? JK*?tt7 of kii am J
wv rlJ-embracing heart. It matamed two
enaacutlj {nautical »usgestowt»--th» first, an
Ocean I*«uiy I\w»ge, w£tch woakl inferably
tor:rise to a woudetlu] extent, the number of
fret? mal remit uTrtCnri*n9 bW*rtt Ifarelcn
lauds the other, a Congee** uf Nations, for
the sutetncitt of ijilr national dispute*. In
behalf of this latter eminently practical object,
a convention is proposed to be held in Parts,
which i* the piaoe most appropriate for th«
co- .menccment of a movement of that kind,
on account of the understood fabMafck d»-
|K«in*»n of Lntnrlin** tn thn pim. With
regard to the Ocx»:i Penny Postage, there
wns a stafetnetit in Klihu .Ptnrrtt's report,
whlali ought to receive the immediate atten
tion of our government. AH letters from
America are subject to a postage of a shilhog,
payable in this Durhig the laic
fiavino-ta Ireland, nuny Ic**h repeats in the
Untied Elates, under the uidurtnce of tnu»t
praiseworthy feelings. seat horn® money to
their friends in Ireland but there can be no
donbt, that very many ef the letters contain
ing advices of these vv ®hP kwt h*
the parties tn whom they were addressed, in
consequence of their inability to pay the
postage. The present postage of letters to
America, is one shilling, including both in
hud aud ocean carriage. Mr. Euiritt’s pro
posal U, that there should be a charge of a
penny for inland postage, and a peony fur
cenn postage, so that it would require only
six times the present number of letters to pay
the same amount of postage. There seems
t o reason to doubt, that the change could be
mad- without any loss to our revenue and,
as it would ho an incalculable benefit to all
partita res-idor-t in either country, and having
friends in the other, all person* orj your side
of the Atlantic, having friends here, should
urge upon them the duly of assisting^in the
attainment of so great a boon.
The recent outbreak in Naples appears to
have been of a most serious description; at
all events it vres made so by the brutal or
much worse than brutal conduct of the King,
who let loose the lazzironi on the respectable
inhabitants of the town, a groat part of which
was consequently burnt to ashes. The hor
rid scenes which took place, have roused the
indignation of ail Italy, and the King of
Naples is everywhere denounced as a monster
and a Bourbon, who has forfeited every claim
to his throne, and to the toleration of society.
Yotirs truly, 11, S. D,
To the Ladies of Paris iFio recent 1 tj addressed
a petition to the Fren h Cfyanber of Deputies
on the subject of Slavery
Dear Friends trul Sisters in the cans-? of the
Slave. —It was with unfeigned satisfaction, 1
that wo observed your recent efforts in the
cause of oppressed humanity—the cause of
‘.lie slave in your own Colonies; and we rc-j
juice that you have been emboldened thus to,
stand forth, and become mouth and utterance
for the dumb.”
Your well timed and powerful appeal to the
Chamber ef Deputies, on behalf of your de-i
graded sisters, lias filled our hearts with sym
pathy and with an earnest desire not only to:
assure vou of this, but to encourage vou in the
1 blessed work. It is one which will assuredly
bring upon you, the blessings of many; and
we would unite our prayers with yours, that
the far richer blessing of God may rest upon
von in your endeavors to promote it, and that
i He nmy so touch the hearts of those who
have the power not only to listen to, hut l'a*
vorably to heed the request of your petition.—
i Nevertheless, should this not b? accomplished
1 »o soon as you desire, he not discouraged, hut
1 with that perseverance and true dignity which
a consciousness of the righteousness and jus
tice of the cans? roast ever impart, go on
ever trusting in the faithfulness of God, and in
the strength which He atfbrjeth, till it shall
he declared on tin pages of your statute book
that within the dominion of Fraiioe no slave
can live.
We agree with you, that it is peculiarly
the province of Women to plead for her en
slaved sisters, and to exert her gentle, yet
often powerful influence with fathers, hus
bands, brothers, and whet ever else she feels
it will be availing. Many of the women of
Great Britain have trodden a similar pith be
fore you—it was oft times a claik and drear j
one but they felt—they knew, that, bumble
as their efforts were, they were valued by
those whose prominent position rendered them
far more powerful advocates in the cause.—
The struggle was painful and anxious, vet
the reward came at last—the day arrived w
freedom was proclaimed in all the British
LUiqds of the west —the shackles full and
eveiy -.iiuther could call her child her own.
You are ill iroughly alive to the horrors and
degradation of the system—into that we do
nut, therefore, deem it niceasary minutely to
enter, but we would gladly throw our mite of
influence into the treasury, and hid you God
speed in vour ('hristian labors—never doubt
ing, hm faithfully wot king, and humbly
trusting that the day will come, and may you
be honored instruments in hastening it, when
every bond save that oflovc shall be broken
and the oppressed shall go free.
SigaeJ on b.-lu'f of tl»e ikha urgh Ladic*
Kmanoipaiiaa Society,
SARAH WIG HAM, Prasderii.
JANE I. CAD LAM, Sec. pro. tem.
i Gaud.doape.
The intelligence Iroaj this. inland m iiw*
portent, and leads to the coscl’us’nn that the
claves would emanelpate them wires whether
the Prcvisem* I Government of France did so
or not. A vessel <ibc schoo.i'-r Albatross)
h-ii armed with mi'iravuioo that they Rad
refused to work, under t.*e u.pMi-am that
their freedoßi had been d*r«arul by Re
publican France, arid that it wt* withheld by
their owners and the colonial authyedies. The
whole of the inilttaiy and pi«l ee wove tinder
arms night a id day, and had been plentifully
supplied with bill esrr.dg-c*. 0u the arm al
of the mail *najriutr an aecoaat of tha riwo-
Ivtmo W From*, order* wtare sWKiwd by tt*
(to uhe p/st muster not |o deLvar ch»:
letter*, aad f'K several hoars tku t*«kr uas
aett-d *jO. bat it soon bccante evident that if
p.rrv*vered to, the office would he destroyed
and tb? Setter* takco hr fornri.
|a. aaAaudv on an i«aua being ternfe, and
ibe etaie af affu-'* U home beuertunfr known.
ibe Sf lines frem U»ti di p of war and mereh
ant «es4-.U m fort jom»4 the muitacy and
mUtac., alicre, ami the town wan a coo
timid aacoe ol rial cnl drankeqtKfn three
r thvs. lit'* 44 Marriltawc Hyain** being su-.c
with grwrt lt vriv mcc!,
tarhav work *(wM riorn* hy
j the dsm ss such.aod m the war?
s ti.a kwa of their s»*2»r crop w» old tw
fr-.ih -F rf.n nJ
4 fe
«*y» “A gar!, claunw! as the Lrojerty nf a
ton u> ihcfed *h*
jeii ago, and cator to this city on the wnct
Carabni. bs» !*mni wwid.tg la h i
»«n« tuw. Hor mtit«r, htcwiuuf aware of
her luealjiy, employed negro main to as Ac a
100 'er of fcHeciHm to hr r, and profon m*r-
r ‘*ge, i aeh duty bo perfornjs-d. The mat
riage ©v*nmg was 6*ral—U*t Wedfte*d»v
eTcmog. The lunar* had ki» flaas Isad
ca/Mibg lh« lady wtf under pn. L*r*« cf cvl*.
br-u*ff the ccn maoies; but an troth his ob
ject was. ss shove nurd. to deJm-r her sf>
to tbo man who rfliiMd tu r. The arises
leak**? ertrt ©ft Wrhwsd*y, *r?d the gif!\
friends informed her of the situation m trfi!h!r
sh? wr.s, and abduction prevented, Tltf
negro man was must severely b ir.dlcU."
Agitation in Canada.—Mr. Papmeau,
who is stated tu be in fcfor of a se\ er«ai*x’ of
Cruotfei fruwt Great Britain, addrea*ed a meet
ing of two tftnusaa.d persons, at s town near
Quebec, last week.
Address of An ti-stnverr Wonts of We«t
era Xewr York.
Ender a deep and abiding impassion of the
duty wo mv to Grid and o;tr fofVrtr hHngs,
the Autt-Slim-rf wurmyn of Hiwhc«er feel
constrained* to oraitinno to perKavnn* ta thrai
elloTts for the oppressed and suth'hasr hooB
urUo suli remain toihug u* the
Southern prison housiv Wo an fnx}ueut!y
brought pmnfully to remenf!>er that not only
ii therr labor w rested from them nnromun’’‘ti
led V not only do they suffer from inters" hmv
ger and o*dd; not only arc the ternul.-e. or»
sisters, subjected to the cruel mid parsion itc
outrages of-their tyrannical mush rs and over-
S?urs but there are daily instances of sun
daring the lies in nature, thus sepa
rating thnm forever. And can we expect any
thing better —can we look for booevoleftcc ot
fin*?'feelings from a system so foul ard fiend
ish as slavery* It would hoiumesouaWe,
because a pornrpt tr»> oenrot bring forth
good leuit.*’ Therefore, kuov. mg uiat wult
out associative action wa caauut roudor tbli
eient aid to this holy cause, we aUuotiopatuly
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We anktlvmn
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus,‘‘All
things whatsoever ye would men should do tc
you, do even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which lie calls
our attention to the sick auJ to those who al
in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as yq have done it to one of the
least of these, my brethren, ye have done ii
unto me.” We fed assured a’l that have
hearts to fed, turd are careful to attend to thr
monitions of conscience—xll who are deter
mined to iiva for the good of our race, instead
of devoting all then time to tlpiir own per
sonal ease-‘-ah wlta fuel bound ta improve the
pro -hips tints allotted to them here, by pio
umting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, wilt come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forevei
tbo demon of slavery from our land and'in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wiokuiuesa, W 3 bin. fob be a light to tut
world.”
We hope no otio vyill feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
Christian's influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and wall certainly produce its
good elficts. We ask for the aid of men and
of women; —we call on the old and tiie
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
either of money nr of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men ami women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object, wo propose bolding a Fail
in December uqxt. We ask the females ii
the adjoining towns and country around us, ti
get up sewing circles, and prepare such art!
eles as will ho'most saleable, and to come, fur
nish tables, give ns their company, and he!]
us, not oidy tn selling those things thus pro
pared, but in convincing the public mind
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity
and thus be helpers in fastening the day of
emancipation.
EXTRACT FROM John Van!f BuREN’S SPEECH,
At Monroe County Democratic Convention, June 12, 1848.
The question now Arises in regard
to Territory west of Mississippi— Ter
j ritory now free, which has become s
part of the United States under the de
claration Sf the President. The ques
tion is, u Shall Slavery go there,, or
shall Freedom go there Both can-
not go there, as I think I shall be able!
•o show you«y It will be recollected;
that the whole region ceded from Vir
ginia was Slave Territory. That re-1
■gion is now att Free. Thts shows you'
the wisdom of-the policy of Jefferson,
by which Sla've/y was prohibited from
going there, 1 was told by an in
telligent gentleman the other day, that
the ordinance actually set free some
two or three thousand slaves. Is it
not idle, then, for {gentlemen to deny
the power of Congress to prohibit
Slaveholders from going into free* Ter
ritory, and planting Slavery there? If
they do this, they expel the white la
borer beyond all question, for he will
not go into a county where hs will be
obliged to labor side by side with the
black slave. This is a question which
must be met now. It is not a question
in regard to a treaty to be formed, or
Territory that may or may not be ac
quired. It is not a future, but a pres
ent question—it is now here—upon us
—and must be met at once. The Pre
sident says our government must be
extended over Oregon; and the people
who have gone into that country have
petitioned for a Territorial Govern
ment to be established there. A bill
for that purpose is now before Con
gress, and is likely to fail, because of
the unwillingness of the Southern mem
bers to grant a provision which shall
prohibit Slavery. It is upon us; and
must be decided at the ensuing Presi
dential election.
What are the objections to the ex
tension of Slavery? They are, in the
first place, because it is upon its face a
disgrace and a curse. Kvcry human
being knows it to be so. Washington
knew it, Jefferson knew it, and they
declared it boldly. Patrick Henry,
James Monroe, James Madison, and all
the early fathers of the Republic,
slaveholders, and living in Virginia,
fully and unqualifiedly asserted that it
was a great social and political evil,
and a disgrace to the institutions that
permitted it to exist. If there were no
other question presented but the ab
stract question of Slavery itself, no
northern freeman would hesitate to say
that it ought not to be extended. But
there are other considerations connect
ed with it. For instance: in the South
ern States, one man is equal to four
persons at the north. The great prin
ciple at the basis of American institu
tions is, that taxation and representa
tion should go hand in hand. That
principle is openly and signally violated
under the provision which permits this
disparity to exist. In regard to the
states where this provision is now al
lowed, it is a matter of compromise,
and to that extent l am willing to sub
mit to it; but when it is proposed to
carry the slave market into the new
and virgin fields of New Mexico and
California, I must firmly object. No
man who claims to be a friend to the
principles of liberty and equality,
would hesitate to say that slavery must
stand still where it is. What madness
has seized upon the Southern people
on this question, when they attempt to
force upon us the candidate of a Con
vention, where one man from South
Carolina gives nine votes, and seventy
two from New York give none!
(Laughter and applause.) Of all ex
travagant abuses of the theory of re
presentation, this seems the most ex
traordinary. This Commander without
men, (laughter,) whom his own State
repudiates—worse off even than the
Conservatives, for a few people do
pretend to have sent them —is allowed
to cast nine votes. What haR New
York done to the Democratic party
New York, who, from the formation ol
the Constitution until now, has shoul
dered and carried through, with her
triumphant power, all great Democrat
ic measures—what evil has she done
that she deserves to be scourged by this
South Carolina cat-’o-nine-tails.”—
(Cheers and laughter.)
There is one question connected with
this subject, which coincs home to ev
ery man in this country—a question
between the capital of the South
and the free labor of tkc north. The
capital of the South in the hands o
three hundred thousand Slaveholders
and the free labor of the North in th<
hands of Freemen. The question is
whether the Territory to be annexe*
shall be divided into plantations of tw<
or three thousand acres for the occupa
tion of Slaveholders, or cut up int*
small and convenient farms for actua
settlers—whether free labor shall b<
forever kept out—for we know that th«
white laboring man cannot be drivei
into a country where he will have ti
work beside the black slave. Slaverj
breaks down and destroys the dignitj
of the laboring man. The Irish, Ger
man, Swiss aud French emigrants comi
to this country to find homes when
thay will be respected, and where thej
may enjoy equal, social and politica
privileges, and where they will find i
government to protect them. Tht
question is, then, if this great mass, th<
annual accumulation of w hich is equa
to the entire slnveholding population
shall be allowed to go into this new
Territory, to find homes and build u[
States which shall take their places bj
j the side of Ohio, and reflect honoi
upon free institutions throughout tb<
world. This is to be decided at this
election; and how is it presented
Both Conventions were organized an*
proceeded upon this single question.—
j How is it with Mr. Cass? Geo. Rath
bun, of Auburn, has declared, an*
there has been no denial of it, that Mr
Cass assured him last year that he wai
decidedly in favor of the Wilmot Pro
viso, and that he expressed his rvgrei
at not being able to vote upon it, or
account of Mr. Davis, of Mass., speak
tog against time at the close of these*
*foo. He has now published a letter ii
Vfctcfc k# hs has changed bu
views OR tkftt subject, asd denies the
power of Congress to pass toy law
prohibiting slavery in free territory.—
*h* Utica Convention declared that
while they would not make a test upon
this question, they would not support
a man who did. —Daily Advrrtiarr.
INSTINCTS or the blind.
A notice of the life and writings of
Dr. Biacklock, by Mr. B. B. Bowen, a
a resident of Massachusetts, contains
the following curious passage respect'
ing the ideas which the blind have of
colors.
I would state here, for the benefit
of the curious, r that there is a fancied
resemblance, at least, between colors
and the tones of the human voice.—
The lower tones correspond with the
darker shades, the medium voice with
the paler colors or the milder shades,
and the higher tones, or the head
voice, with the brightest and most
brilliant colors, as a bright red, lor ex
ample. The female voice, whose me
-11 odious tones can move the heart to
deepest ecstacy, is a combination of
(the blue, the violet, and the pink. Ibe
masculine voice resembles the black,
the green, and the red. 1 hese are va
riously compounded in different indi
viduals. We hear, in the deep, rich
tones of the Hon. Daniel Webster’s
voice, for example, the first two, or the
black and red, or, if you please, dark
and brilliant. In most persons, how
ever, the medium or green voice pre
dominates. Those who have what is
called a squeaking voice, such as the
celebrated John Randolph is said to
have had, the red is predominant.—
The two extremes, when rightly com
bined, are the most agreeable to the
ear. These remarks may seem crude,
and to some even silly. We have
made them, however, for what they are
worth. It seems to us the only way in
which we can obtain the most remote
idea of colors; for it is absurd to sup
pose that they would make use of their
names without attaching to them any
meaning—that they would repeat, par
rot-like, just as children sometimes do,
words without attaching to them any
definite idea. It may not generally be
known that the blind attach to almost
all physical objects some moral quality.
It of course depends upon the effect
produced by different objects upon the
mind through their other senses, or
upon some idea which they have ob
tained from others. With the sun, is
connected the idea of greatness and
magnificence; with the moon, amiabili
ty, benignity, etc.”
TIIE LAST BELL.
It was a beautiful morning in the
month of May, 1825. I was sitting by
the side of Helen Harris, the only girl
I ever loved, and I believe the only
girl that ever loved me—any how, she
was the only one that ever told me so.
We were sitting in the piazza of her
father’s house, about a quarter of a mile
from the landing place, waiting for the
bell of the steamboat that was to w arn
me of the moment that was to part “my
love and me.” It came to pass, in the
course of my history, that in order to
accumulate a little of this world's gear,
that I might be the better prepared to
encounter the demands of matrimony,
I was destined to cross the blue Chesa
peake, and seek in the metropolitan city
the wherewith so much desired. How
many swains have been compelled like
me to leave home, and the girl they
loved, in search of gold! And, good
gracious! how many have been disap
pointed! But to the piazza.
Well, we were sitting in the piazza,
and talking of our love and separation,
&c. We were waiting for the unwel
come sound of the steamboat bell, and
you may rely on it, we talked fast and
abbreviated our w r ords in such rujrgcd
sentences, that nobody but ourselves
could understand them. The first hell
rung, I sprang to my feet, and trembled
ilke an aspen. “Oh, George,w ait till the
last bell rings,” said Helen, as the big
bright tears came over her blue eyes.
“Do no such thing,” answered the
hoarse voice of Mr. Harris, as he
arose like a spectre from the cellar,
where he had been packing away his
cider—“ George, never wait for the last
bell.” I was off like a deer, and I
arrived at the steamboat merely in time
to go on board before she w as pushed
off’ from the wharf.
My career in search of pelf, has in
a degree been successful; but I believe
had not the old farmer told me never
to wait for the last bell,” I should now
I be as poor as the morning that “fare
well” shivered from my lips upon the
heart of my lovely Helen. Any per
son who has lived at a hotel even for a
day, knows the danger of waiting fot
the last bell; I did it once, and lost my
dinner. The first stroke of the dinnet
bell always found me at table. Foi
six months I was a clerk, andmyncvei
waiting for the last secured for me
the affections of niyjriftployer, who of
fered me a partnership, which I accept
ed, and in every instance when the bell
j rung, I was read/.
I had almost forgotten to tell you,
that Helen Harris is my wife, and she
will never repent the morning I took
her father at his word, and ran ovei
the field to the boat in time. When I
arrived at Baltimore, I called on some
gentlemen to whom I had introductory
letters, and they rcccmmended ine foi
a situation one was soon offered,
which had been refused by (our young
men who were waiting for the last bell,
and which I accepted; it was the mak
ing of me. Haste for the first bell,
accept lha first offer, and keep it till
you get a better. Life is short, and Ik
who puts off until the last bell, will, a t
father Harris predicts, "come out al
the little end of the horn.”
i Young ladies, I have a word for you
In the street where I live, there is a
lady who has been seven years ii
choosing a partner for life. She ha:
had several respectable offers, but she
i was waiting for the last bell, and she is
now likely to remam to the last a belle
for she is turned of thirty, and it ii
more than probable that she must bide
her blessedness forever. Now, I be
seech all of you who may read thii
sketch, w henever you may feel a dispo
sition to postpone anything which shouk
be done now, remember the words o
farmer Harris, “Never wait for the
last bell.”
Knowledge is p«wer: an enlighten
and virtuew* people can never be en
1 slaved.
nnn or iiateit.
I tkink I can interest you a lirtlc
by giving a abort account of the rav
ages slavery aaade a bile it «*i»ted in
its nukiesl from in the State ol
York. Sons time prior
lutioo ill these States, there lived in
the city of Schenecki.dy a man who
followed the trade of sailing a vessel to
the British possessions in the «est
Indies called Honduras. In process ol
time, this captain formed an acquaint
ance with a family of coloured persons
in those parts, and an intimacy be
tween the parties was the result.
Facilities for edueation being superior
in the States at that time, the parents
of wy si other were induced to entrust
two of their most promising children,
a son and a daughter, to this sea-cap
tain, to take with him to the States, in
order to give them an education. Afew
years had elapsed, and the American
rebellion broke out, when this man s
trade was cut off with the V' cat Indies,
and his avaricious heart led him to g* l
and take my dear mother and her
brother out of chool, and he sold them
as slaves for life. The consequence
was, she was sold several times to the
most cruel tyrants that could be found,
to break what they termed her stubborn
spirit. During this time, she married
and became the mother of three
children, of which I am the second.
While the third was in infancy, my
mother’s elder sister left home in
search of my mother, and found her,
after searching for three or tour years
in various parts. This older si4ter had
been despatched by the fond parents
of those interesting chilprcn hut,
oh witness in imagination the meeting
of those two sisters, after a separation
of twenty years! It was utterly im
possible to separate them. My mother
was immediately bought and paid for by
her sister, who refused to take up hea
residence in this slave-holding country,
and was unwilling to leave it without
her sister. Here my poor father was
brought into trying circumstances
(being himself a slave). lie entreated
that his wife might be permitted to
remain with him, but all to no purpose;
the sister insisted upon her accompany
ing her home to the West Indies. At
length, my mother consented to go
and, for want of sufficient means, the
two eldest children had to remain in
slavery. My father lived a few years,
and negotiated to purchase his free
dom; but, about the time of its ac
complishment, the cruel messenger,
death, summoned him to appear at the
judgment-seat of Christ Thus we
were left, without parents, to the tendei
mercies of American slavery. 1
think I would he willing to suffci
almost any thing, if I could know even
the name of my mother’s parents. 1
have said thus much to apprise you o:
my origin.”— Letter from Thomas ton
Rensselaer, Eiltior oj the Ram s Horn,
dated ,V« ic York January 30, 1818.
PRECOCITY.
People talk such nonsense about pre
cocity, as if it were only conncctec
with genius and singularity. Bu:
genius is not precocity—it anything, it
is exactly the reverse. Genius, ii
truth, is something more childlike stil.
than childhood—more foolish, mor<
fanciful, and more faithful, and incor
rigibly so for life. Instead of antici
pating in childhood the mind of a man.
it retains in manhood the heart of a
child. Kvery genius is a child, am
every child is u genius, morally, it not
intellectually, or there is little to b<
hoped from him. But it is your wise,
prudent, hard, sedate children, who
are really precocious, born with a kind
of native experience of their own, who
naturally antedate that caution anc
cunning which others so painfully ac
quire; keeping out of scrapes and dis
appointments, because they haVe nom
of that love and trust which lead other
children in. This is the precocit)
parents should be afraid of. U hey wil
have a child who will save them n
world of present trouble, who will com
mit no blunders, and break no bounds
save his pocket money, and spare hit
clothes, spy out all his brothers’ anc
sisters’ faults, and the servants’ pic
cadillocs, and be probably held up ii
the family as a standard of circum
spection and prudence, or, what it
falsely called, up to a certain age if
juvenile life, of “goodness;” but lei
them not rejoice; they will have a sor
who will desert his father if he be un
fortunate, grind his mother if she be t
1 widow, bear a smooth character to tin
1 world, hut a hard heart to his own
turn against his parents in their oh
age the very character they falsely be
stowed in his youth; and, in additiot
to this, have the strongest health ant
longest life of the family; for tliere i:
no life-preserver like the precocity of:
narrow spirit and a cold hcait.— Fra
I ser’s Magazine,
Schiller’s use ok Bodily Suf
i FERi.NG. I have often been acquaintec
with persons, bojh men and women, ii
i whom this condition (of constan
bodily suffering) was habitual, ant
who had not even a single probabh
hope of ever getting free from it, unlt si
by death. To this class, especially
Schiller belonged. He suffered much
suffered constantly, and knew, too, tha
(as was actually the case) thest
perpetual pains were gradually drawing
him nearer to death. Yet of him ii
might truly he said, that he kept hit
sickness imprisoned within the limit*
of his body for at whatever hour yoi
might visit him, in whatever state you
might fiud him, his mind was alwayt
cheerful and tranquil, aud ready foi
friendly intercourse, and for interesting
and even profound conversation. Ht
1 would even say, at times, that a mar
can work better in certain states o
bodily ailment, —not those, of course,
of acute suffering; and I have fount
him, while actually in this uncomforta
ble condition, composing poems anc
prose essays, in which no one, surety
i could discover a trace of this circuin
stance of their birth.— Letter bu If
I on Humboldt.
Comsol axiom roa Reformers.— li
is a mischievous notion that we an
come late into nature; that the work
was finished a long lime ago. As the
world was plastic and fluid in. the- hand*
of God, so it i* ever to so much of hii
attributes as we bryig to it. To igno
ranee end sin it is flint.— Emerson.
HEALTH PROMOTED BY *YM
METRY OP MIND.
Ia conclusion, I cannot nass over the
vast importance to health, that tbt
mind in all its parts, should be well
balanced no one attribute acting al
the expense of others. A disorderd 01
a distempered mind is totally incompati
ble with health and long life. It soor
destroys the body of its possessor.
Tranquillity and repose of mind »n
indispensible to health and long life,
It is an interesting fact, that all the
vices contribute to disturb the mind,
while all the virtues contribute to it*
repose and tranquillity. The effect oi
vice is to destroy health and shorten
life. On the other hand, virtue incline*
to lengthen life. Allow me to urg«
you to cultivate symmetry of mind.
Repel frotn your mind all corroding
cares —all unnecessary anxiety—and
every thing iu the shape of secret
vices. Secret vices are like the des
tructive vermin that establishes itsell
in the heart of the choicest and most
promising fruits, and eats out all their
virtue and substance. Never allow
revenge, envy, hatred or malice to take
possession of your mind. These con
ditions of mind deepen all the lines ol
the face, sharpen all the features, and
give to the possessor the appearance ol
premature old age. But, on the other
hand, internal purity and the practice
of benevolence, the exercise of gene
rosity, of kindness to all, thinking no
evil, cultivating the fullest cheerful
ness, will soothe and soften the coars
est brow. Above alt, the whole mind
requires an anchor that shall stay it in
all the storms, vicissitudes and troubles
of life. This anchor is obtained in
pure and undefiled religion: a constant
reliance, in all trials, upon God our
Savior. Practice the precepts of
health. For your mind, learn and
practice all the teachings of our blessed
Savior, and your person will be full of
strength and beauty, your days multi
plied, and your life will be long, prosp
erous and happy.— Fitch’s Lectures.
LOW BIRTH.
Many of our greatest men have
sprung from the most humhlc origin, as
the lark, whose nest is on the ground,
soars nearest to heaven. Narrow cir
cumstances arc the most powerful stim
ulent to mental expansion, and the
frowns cf fortune the best security foi
her final smiles. A nobleman who
painted remarkably well for an amateur,
show ing one of his pictures to Poussin,
the latter exclaimed, Your lordship
only requires a litiie poverty to make
you a complete artist.”
The following incident may afford a
timely rebuke to those lads who think
themselves degraded by dirty work, and
those young ladies who affect to be ir
horrors if their mammas set them about
house work.” Here they will see
that even Gen. Washington was not
ashamed to work hard w hen it was ne
cessary:
During the American Revolution, it
is said that an officer, not habited in Iti.-
military costume, was passing by w hen
a small company of soldiers were a
work, making some repairs on a small
redoubt. The commander of the little
squad was giving orders to those win
were under him, relative to a stick oi
timber which they were endeavoring to
raise to the top of the works. Th«
timber went up hard, and on this ac
count the voice of the little great
man was the oftener heard in his
regular vociferations of Heave away:
There she goes! Heave ho!”
The officer before spoken of stopped
his horse w hen he came to the place,
and seeing the timber sometimes scarce
ly move, asked the commander w hy h<
did not take hold and render a little
aid. The latter appeared to be some
what astonished, and turning to the offi
cer with the pomp of an Emperor, said,
Sir, I am a corporal!”
“You are net, though, are you?’’
said the officer, I was not aware of
that; and taking off his hat and
bowing, I ask your pardon, Mr. Cor
poral!”
U|»on this he dismounted his elegant
steed, flung the bridle over a post, and
lifted till the sweat stood in drops upon
his forehead.
When the timber was elevated to its
proper station, turning to the mar
clothed in brief authority, “Mr. Cor
poral Commander,” said he, “when
you have another such job, and have
not men enough, send to your com
mander-in-chief, and I will come and
help you a second time.” The cor
poral was thunder-struck—it was Wash
ington!
METHOD.
A lady was complimenting a clergy
man on the fact that she could always
recollect and recite more ol the matter
of his sermons than those of any other
minister she was in the habit of hear
ing. She could u*»t account feu* this;
but she thought the fact was worthy of
observation. The* reverend gentleman
remarked that he could explain the
cause. “I happen, he said, “to
make a particular point ot classifying
my topics—it is a hobby of mine to do
so; and therefore I never compose a
sermon without first settling the rela
tionship and older ol my argument and
illustrations. Suppose, madam, that
ybur servant was stalling t«r town, and
you were obliged hastily to instruct her
about a few domestic purchases, not
having time to write down the items;
and suppose you said, 4 Be sure to
bring some tea, and also some soap,and
coffee, too, by the by; and some pow
der blue; and don't forget a few light
cakes, and a little sugar; and, now 1
think of it, soda;’ you would not be
surprised if her memory failed with
regard to oue or two of the articles.
But if your commission ran thus, ‘Now,
Mary, to-morrow, we are going to have
some friends to tea, therefore bring a
supply of tea and coffeo.and sugar and
light cakes; and the next day, you
know, is washing-day, so that we shall
want soap, and starch, and soda, and
powder-blue;* it is most likely she
would retain your order as easily as
you ratlin uty sermon.’' SutHh'% Irish
Uiamomts.
The ship fever is quite prevalent ii
i Cincinnati at the present time.
FILING NEWSPAPERS.
One of the many things which- I
have to regret, when 1 review my past
life, is, that 1 did not from my earliest
j youth, at least as soon as I was able to
jdo it, take and preserve—l believe tlir
j technical term is file some good
newspapers. How interesting would
it be now to a sexagenarian to look
I into the papers which he had read
when he was twelve or sixteen oi
'twenty years old! How many event*
would this call to his mind, which he
has entirely forgotten! How many in
teresting associations and feeling*
would it revive! What a view would
jit give of past years! What knowl
j edge would it preserve by assisting the
j memory! And how many valuable
purposes of a literary kind, even,
might it be rendered subservient to!
How much do I wish that I could look
j into such a record, when composing
this short rrticle! But newspapers are
quite different things now from what
they were sixty or even twenty years
j ago. 'They are unspeakably more in-
S tercsting and valuable; in this respect,
at least, (I believe in many others),
these times are better than the funner.
Formerly the editors of newspapers
were obliged to strain their wits and
exhaust their means in order to obtain
matter to fill their pages. Now, the
great difficulty is, to insert all the val
uable interesting materials that are
poured upon th< in from every pait of
the world, and from every grade and
phase of society. Now, newspapers
contain many of the best thoughts ef
the most highly gifted of men, on the
most momentous subjects, and their
reports and statements are far more
accurate thau they formerly were or
could he. They have repudiated the
character for lying they once had, and
have become records of truth. Cor.
of British Banner.
RACE WITH A LOCOMOTIVE.
In a cottage not very far from the
well known village of Kcclefeclian,
which can boast of more bridges than
even the metropolis itself, there resides
a gude wife who is now in her 9:2d or
!l:Jd year, and can, notwithstanding,
read without the aid of spectacles, and
to use her legs with more vigor than
many her juniors by a couple score ol
years. From her cottage she com
mands a view of the Caledonian rail
way for nearly five miles, and often
amuses herself with watching the trains
careering alon<r, speculating on the
unco changes which have taken plact
since the days of her girlhood. While
discussing these matters the other day,
she made a bet of a crown piece with
her son, that she would start from hei
house, which is three quarters of a
mile from the line of railway, as soon
as the mail train came in sight, and
reach an accommodation bridge w hich
it crosses, before the train came up
The proposal agreed to, she kilted up
her petticoats, as soon as the locomo
tive show ed its firey nr so, and away
she ran, three-fourths of a mile against
four and three-quarters; but 1< r tin
one a very elderly pair of legs, for th<
other, the steam steed rushing alonp
with more than the velocity of the ract
horse. For once, however, even stean
was too slow, and, with wind in ven
lair order, the mnnngenarian gainrt
the bridge, ran below* and back again,
ere the ponderous train whizzed above
the arch. During her race, she ui< t
younger female acquaintance, who
wished to speak with her. I hae ntt
time the noo—eh, eh—l’m rinnin’ a
race wi’lhe train, ye see—eh. ch—un
less—i-eh, eh—ye keep up wi’ me.’
This her friend attempted to do, hut
soon found that sh had bellows to
mend, and was forced to give in. Tin
winner went home triumphantly, pock
eted the stakes with great gusto, ant’
was so little the worse tor her exertions,
that she offered to run the same dis
tance again.-t her son, who, after tin
specimen he had just had of his mo
ther’s powers in the racing line, ven
prudently declined the proposal. Then
is evidently no great need of sanitory
reform among the braes of Annandule.
Scotch Paper.
Man’s Friends. —Man has three
friends in this world—how do they coii
i duct themselves in the hour of death,
when God summons him before his tri
bunal? Money, his best friend, leaves
him first, and goes not with him. His
relations and friends accompany him to
the threshold of the grave, and then re
turn to their homes. The third, which
he often forgot during his life, are his
good works. 1 hey alone accompany
him to the throne of the Judge—they
go before—speak and obtain mercy and
pardon Ibr him.
Taste For Monstrosities. —The
Chinese have a passion for oddities,
and not coutcntcd with mechanical cu*
riosities, or the cultivation of dwarl
trees and vegetable monstrosities, they
experiment upon the animal kingdom.
They have animals possessing an unu
sual number of horns; and liens may
be seen in the streets walking about
very composedly upon duck legs, and
rice versa. There are other combina
tions equally odd, though seldom seen
by Canton residents.
Black and White.— Major Noah
says, that Sambo, although he cauuat
vote, is destined to exert an important
inlluencc oil the approaching contest
for the Presidency; and as the silent
partner who furnishes the main capital
of a political firm whose bids are in the
market, he is deserving, in diplomatic
phrase, of distinguished considera
tion.”
A Printer. —There is at this day,
in Knglaud, employed on the Black
stone Chronicle, a printer, 7<i years of
age, who commenced his apprentice
ship in the year 17H4. He was a sol
dier under Sir John Moore at Corunna,
where he received a bail in his arm.
He was with the Duke of Wellington
in all his campaigns, and lost an ankle
bone by a grape-shot at Waterloo.
But in spite of all these hard services,
he is the swiftest tod heat compositor
in the office.
I would not waste my youth ia idle
dalliance, bat would plan! rich seeds
to blossom in my manhood and beat
fruit when lam old.— Young.
