Conclusion A\n Conjectures.
These are, sir, the general outlines o('
the political route, in which I wish toj
seo our friends #nd enemies Walk; in
which I wish that the press anti speech,
executive and Chambers, should guide
France and Europe: it is the only road
which has not an abyss at its termina
tion, or which conducts to a future.
You know it; before the catastrophe
which afflicted our hearts without sur
prising our foresight, for wc did sue it,
prompt, certain, inevitable, at the end
of the false, narrow, retrograde path,
where blindness and error were urging
on those we loved to have as guides,
whom we followed as the soldier should
follow his chief —to death, but not to
suicide —these were our thoughts and
our words. Alas! barren thoughts and
words, which the breath of adulation,
or of intrigue, never suffered to reach
the cars of kings; which the wind of
popular passions may also carry away,
perchance,to-day! Nevermind; they
will fall dry and cold upon the sand, or
upon the rock, but they will not die
there forever; a true idea, a social
idea, fallen from heaven on mankind,
never returns to the void; once it has
germinated in some true hearts, in
eome logical and healthy minds, it bears
in itself a something vital, divine, im
mortal, which cannot entirely perish;
passions, vile interests, ignorance,
habit, prejudices, envy, may crush it
beneath their feet, may mutilate it with
the sabre, or the axe: its fruits are
delayed for a day, for a century per
haps or two. Providence has its hand
full of centuries,and counts them not in
its works: but at the century marked,
at the fatal day—perhaps we are at it
—the living idea whose deeds havoa
been shed abroad, and multiplied by
the very storm, bursts forth at one mo
ment in all minds. All parties send it
out again as their own; all opinions
own it as the bottom of their common
thought; foreseen or not, an event hap
pens, may be an accident, and the
world is renewed. The idea of liberty
has all these characters: if France
would, if powerg knew liote, this great
fact of social renovation might be
worked out under our eyes: nothing
opposes it, nothing resists it in things,
as in minds; the hour has struck.
Rut i till Francel do powers know
how? Yes, Franco wills, hut she wills
faintly; her long convulsions, her fif
teen years’ repose, her false position
on a misunderstood and a contested
fight, her fear of novelties, her weari
ness of hope, her distrust of error,
nay, of truth, her industrialism, ener
vating worship of gold, her prompt in
fatuations and rapid disgusts, her capti
vation with military glory, her aocret
favor (or a despotism that flutters her
with conquests, that stuns her with
drums her s|rirti of faction, hatred,
mutual abuse, wherewith she wears
out her strength against herself; and,
above all permit us to say, her tittle
ntwi in nigh morality, the decline of
Faligious feeling 'feeling which vivifies
nil others, heroism of conscience, with
out which human nature has not enough
faith io itself, does not sufficiently un
derstand iU own dignity, does uot pUce
its aims sufliciently high, has not confi
dence and desire enough to attain them
—all has exhausted in us the be
ginning of great things; that motive
power of generous and hold resolu
tion*, and moral basis of all free insti
tution*, pvhucal virtue It is political
THE NORTH STAR.

r virtue wre are deficient in, and that it h
which makes rnc doubt and tremble foi
ourselves! Political virtue? I knoa
tiiat liberty produces it by exercising
it; but there must be some beforehand
to sustain liberty. When Rome coulc
i reckon but one Cato, Cccsar was noi
far distant.
But do the potccrt know hotel No, ii
they continue to seek their support in
an element which is now beginning tc
fail, which will be found wanting still
1 1 more in the future, the aristocracy; in
'the restriction, and not in the expan
sion, of political right and action.—ll
they continue to keep their hands
clenched instead of opening them wide,
if they will reign and not guide; if they
will pitch their tent for a day, and force
the social mind to a precarious hah in
the defile at which the nineteenth cew
tury has arrived, and where it will be
smothered, unless it pass through with
daring power, at the head of its gener
ations. Thus, possibly, two things are
deficient at this epoch, without which
all theory falls to the ground, all ex
perience vanishes in air—a country and
a man.
For want of the man, the political
man, the man complete in intelligence
and virtue—a man, sublime and living
impersonation of an age, strong in the
strength of his own and his epoch’s
conviction; Bonaparte of speech, hav
ing the instinct of social life and the
lightning of the tribune, as the hero
has that of death and of the battle-field,
palpitating with faith in the future, Co
lumbus of liberty, capable of discover
ing another political world, of convinc
ing us of its existence, and of leading
us to it by the persuasion of his elo
quence, and the domination of his
genius! For want of such a man, an
archy may be there—vile, hideous, re
trogressive, dcm.'igoguic, sanguinary,
yet impotent and short-lived—for even
anarchy supposes strength. Crime has
also its party in France; the scaffold
has its apostles. But crime can never
he a political element; crime is the
most anti-social of human things, be
cause society is not, and cannot be,
other than morality and virtue. This
party is beyond the law of the country
and of civilization; it is to politics what
robbers arc to society—they kill, but
they d not reckon. Society has neither
a necessity nor an appetite for blood;
it has not even to fight—nothing to
overturn b fore it—all is made straight
under its steps. That imitative admi
ration for the men and the tvorks of
terror, is nothing hut the sophism
which sometimes accompanies the
hangman, as it precedes him always; it
is aa after taste'of blood, shed and
drunk in our epoch of shame, whiMi
some maniacs take for thirst,and which
is only the tiger’s dream.
For lack of political virtue in the
country, at the first earthquake of the
powers, at the first hurricane on the
tempestuous sea of liberty, a general
clamor will arise. Put back, give up
all the way we have made, take in sail;
the most precarious port will be good.
The most obscure, the most ignorant
soldier, w ill don the cocket-hut and the
grey coat, and fancy himself a Bona
parte; will sabre liberty and civiliza
tion, root and branch, and w ill exclaim,
My people,” until they detect that
the hero is only a straw-stuffed effigy,
and until they seek another w ho wears
tyranny more gracefully, and dresses
up slavery better! This free people
does not love liberty enough; they al
ways think they see the temple of glory,
with a hero in the doorway, open to
admit them, and to avenge them for a
new anarchy. They are mistaken; the
hero is no more, and liberty is their
only asylum.
Let us, then, seek after political vir
tue; let us seek after it both for our
selves and others this period will take
care to exercise it; let us seek it where
it is to be found, in a strong convic
tion, in a sincere faith of mankind’s
progressive destiny, in a religious re
spect for our dignity as man, in a se
vere contemplation of* the divine issue,
that God has placed before society as
before individual life. This issue is
himself; it is the perfection of the indi
vidual, and the perfection of the gener
ic being, human nature,which ought to
bring the virtuous man, and society it
self, nearer to God.
The divine thought, applied at length
to policy, is already fermenting in the
young generation which presses on us:
that generation —young, strong, moral,
religious—it is all the hope for the fu
ture! Saint Simouisin itself is a happy
symptom; bold plagiarism which comes
from the gospel, and which ought to'
return there, it has already rescued j
some enthusiastic spirits from the vile 1
doctrines of industrial and political ma
terialism, to open to them the indefinite!
horizon of moral perfection and of so- 1
cial spirituality. That is, in reality,'
the point to be gained; but by the;
route Christ has traced out, which his
progressive doctrine enlightens iu pro
portion as man advances, and upon the
real and solid grouud of humauity, up
on the respect for all rights, upon the
accomplishment of all duties, upon the
reform, and not upon the destruction,
of the only basis which God has hith
erto given to his tanuiy and to society
—property. It may be, humanity will
discover, one day, another social prin
ciple: nothing can be denied, nothing
affirmed, of tiio unknown. The hori
zon of humanity draws back and re
news itself, in proportion to tbe steps ii
has made; the Divine Word alone
knows where it will lead us. The gos
pel is full of social, and yet obscure,
promises; it unfolds itself with time,
but U discloses to each epoch only that
part of tb<r route it ought to attain.—
Saint Kimonisw traces u parallel road,
but in the clouds; it w a religion
without a God; it is Christianity with
RIGHT IS OF HO SEXr-TRUTH IS OF HO COLM-GOD IS THIS FATHER OF VS ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
i out fisitb, y which is the life oi it; it i
the gospel without the reason ant
knowledge of man. All that there ii
in it sincere, elevated, or aspiring to i
11 more perfect and more divine terrestria
I* order, will soon perceive that it canno
j walk without foundation; that it nroa
reach to the skies by its desires, but tt
i human reality by the facts, end wil
return to the principle which gives ai
once speculative truth and practical
force; the indefinite hope of the per
fection of civil societies, and the rule,
the moral, and the measure which
alone can direct them there. The prin
ciple, from whence we all emanate, be
lievers or sceptics, friends dr enemies,
is Christianity! its logical deduction is
social perfection; it is this which has
made modem liberty more true than
ancient liberty; it m this which pre
pares for us again political and civil
charity, more true than the narrow,
exclusive, and egotist patriotism of an
tiquity: its reign w ill be no other than
the rational epoch, the reign of reason,
for reason is also divine.
A word here: By this future and
perfect reign of Christianity, 1 do not
mean that material reign of Christian
ity, that palpable and universal empire
i of the Catholic principle, predominat
ing in fact over all the political powers,
subjugating even the world to religious
truth, and giving also the lie to the sub
lime of its author, My kingdom
is not of this world.” This doctrine of
religious policy realized in social forms
—a doctrine which some men of faith
and talent are vainly rekindling to-day
—has never had the assent of my rea
son. It is seeking, in a crowned mys-
I ticism, in a posthumous theocracy, in
a priestly aristocracy, a principle and
rule of human power which exists no
where but in despotism, or political ar
istocracy. Truth itself should not be
manifested, nor imposed by forms ol
material domination; for her agents
will be always men. Men alter or cor
rupt all which they touch with the
hands of man, and make of the liberty
of the children of God, a degrading
tyranny for us. The only form ot man
ifestation, and empire of religious
truth, is speech—is liberty. The only
yoke of hearts and understandings, is
conviction; that is the only empire of
Christian truth, the only yoke we all
bear with liberty and with love, when
the immortal trunk of Christianity,
which renews its branches and its foli
age, according to necessities and peri
ods, shall have borne and multiplied its
last fruits for us.
Let us now revert to the present day,
and conclude. You see hope and light
in a distant horizon, in the future of
the generations which follow us; un
certainty and darkness over our actual
fate, our immediate future. Mean
while, hope prevails; and if each of
us, without regard for party opinions
or desires, places himself in the truth,
which is immediately before him, seeks
there his daily duty, and employs his
strength without calculating it, the re
sult leaves not a doubt: the social world
will have made an immense step, and
even its fall will have advanced it sev
eral ages. I ain no prophet, but rea
son prophecies; an eternal law, a mor
al law, which the ancients called fatal
ity, which the Christians name Provi
dence, and which is nothing more than
divine will, enchaining consequences to
principles, effects to causes, is working
eternally for or against us, according
as we start from the false or the true.
In the private life of the individual, as
In the social life of empires, this law
shows itself incessantly, by its happy or
vengeful applications; it requites, even
in this world, every man according to
his works, according to his truth and
virtue. It is the shadow of divine jus
tice that we perceive on the earth.-
With this divine law before our eyes,
we can and do in reality predict every
day, with a full and infallible assu
rance.
We can then predict, that if a right
has been omitted or voluntarily violated
in a political fact, its absence or its
violation will plunge the power and
the country in a long and laborious ex
piation.
That if thn power, innocent itself of
the political necessity from whence it
springs, comprehends this dictatorship
of events, this mission of a social des
tiny, and entirely employs it without
any self-seeking, for the disinterested
salvation of the country, in the sincerei
and broad foundation of a liberal andj
rational order; it will triumph over all
obstacles, it w ill create w hat is its evi
dent missiou to create; and will last so
long as these necessary things ought
to last, time to finish their work; itself
a transition to another order of things
more advanced and more perfect.
That if it docs not comprehend it
self, and if it does not profit to the ben
efit of liberty and humanity by the fu
gitive moments which are given to it;
if it does not ae« that a long, broad,
and straight road is open, without ob
stacle before it, and that it can carry
thereby the spirits, laws and facts, to a
point from whence they cau no more
retrograde; if it count* itself us some
thing, if it stops or returns, it will per
ish, and several ages, perhaps, will
perish with it.
That if the constitutional royalists,
the men of fidelity, religion, monarchy,
liberty and progress, persist in setting
their repugnance °f *niud, their scru
ples of memory, their auctions of par-
I ty, above their rights ami duties, as
men and citizens; that if thev ruin
as they have just done, from all modern
political action —election; that if they
look on without fighting, at the political
melee occurring under their eyes, and
ot which they arc themselves the blood
stained prize if they let anarclyr gain
the victory over them; if they let lib
leity. which is no better than oppref
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1818.
i| sioD udlpm it belong to »H, be too ode
l without them; if they obstinately re
11 %se to enter into the new era, into thi
i' common saoctuary of refuge, whicl
I; events am) social providence open
tj often to them; that if they allow them
selves, their priMjplcs, their religion
nod their cause tfw placed beyond th<
I law of the age, beyond tne protection
•nd gratitude of the future, they an
committing suicide; they are eonewrr
ing in the ruin of the present, in Uu
murder of the social future; and they
are preparing for themselves, fur tbcij
country, for their children, one of those
deplorable chastisements that Provi
dence inflicts sometimes as severely on
error as on crime. For us, innocent
of this error, if we do not repudiate
our part of the ndSfehment, which will
make no choice, let us repudiate at
least all participation in the fault. We
shall at least have protested if out
voice cannot be understood, it will at
least have been lifted up! Let it re
sound again! Let us follow this light
which shines for us, this light which all
can see, that light which illumines
political morality with the same lighl
as private morality. Let us do the
best we can under all given circum
stances. Events do not belong to us,
but our determination wholly belongs
to us; events arc never neuter, conse-
I quently we never have the right to be
1 so. There is always, in all combina
tions of human affairs, an ill to avoid,
a- good to seek, a choice to make.—
i Some one has said, that in times of
revolution, it is ofttimes Jess difficult to
do one’s duty than to know it; hut the
moral of Christianity has a light that
always illumines our steps sutficient
ly, in displaying always an end, which
I the instability of events and the stormy
wind of fortune can neither veil nor
move—the weal of humanity. The
choice which this morality commands
us, let us make it from day to day,
hour to hour, according to reason, con
science and virtue: let us yield nothing
of it to our enemies, nothing to our
friends even; let us endure hatred and
insult from the one, smiles and raillery
from the others. Before each mai,
before each epoch, before each deed,
there is a duty; in each duty there is]
a virtue, in each virtue a present or
future reward. Each of these duties,
accomplished by us, is, without our I
knowing it, high policy, for policy is
only morality applied to civil life.
Our duty to ourselves, like our poli
cy, is to confound ours* Ives with the
country from which we caunot secede
without weakening it, and, consequent-1
ly, notmuthout crime; the country,
which had greater call for suc
cor? for illumination, and for energy,
would never pardon us for not having
offered so much of them in our sta
tion we may possess. Let us not con
stitute ourselves the helots of civiliza
tion and of France; let us not, by a
false political attitude, accept, let us
not justify, that title of conquered,”
which skilful enemies would impose on
us to give themselves the odious rights
of victory;—that title ttf conquered,
for which some of us have the weak
ness to honor ourselves! There were
no conquered in France in the battle
of July, except those who, in fact or
in heart, betrayed the sworn law, to
attack the country in her right and her
repose, to overturn, institutions, and
place at the mercy of a street row, a
nation, a throne, Europe, and the age!
We are not of such men! We re
proved them beforehand at the lime,
and afterwards: let us lament their
blindness and their punishment, but nut
adopt to ourselves the political repro
bation wherewith we struck them be
fore defeat, before posterity. They
committed tbe fault, and we pay the
penalty: we are neither the victors nor
the vanquished; we are the victims of
July! Let us know our true denomi
nation, and let us make others know
it; we are Frenchmen, and worthy of
France. Let us unite our efforts to
hers, to upraise her, to sustain her, to
constitute, and to defend her: if she
repulse us, let us sorrow ovR her, but
let it not be said that we have aban
doned her! Let us press into tbe ranks
of her national militia, present our
selves whenever there may be disinter
ested service to be rendered! Let us
not examine under what color or under
what sign, but for whom and for what
we are fighting! It is France and the*
country; it is ever humanity! Honor-j
ing all signs, all colors she unfurls, let
us vote in the municipal councils! Let 1
us vote in the departmental councils!!
Let us, above all, vote in the electoral
colleges! Let us not voluntarily close
the door of political action, of election,
by an evasion, or by as error. J
Let us enter, if the door is open to
us, into the assembly of the country's
representatives; let os mount the tri
bune with s convinced, loyal, and firm
speech if the chamber lias no echoes
for us, the country will have. The
words of the people’s envoy go further
and arc weightier than the voice of the
writer: it is wknfe population, a
whole province, a whole opinion, that
speak bv this mouth. It has a mission
to put forward, s political symbol; to
protest in fhe ju uae of a tralb, or of an
interest. The tnbune is tbe ctmir ot
S popular truth; the words w inch fob
from it are reality and life. Let as as
cend it, then! Let us ascend it, not
to speak more audibly to passions
which call on us to flatter them, and
which pay out baseness with applause;
not to csre** with vain regret*, nor to
envaaom with bitter antipathies; net to
recriminate agstart a past that belong*
ho nobudv; wot ta plant aatbuulw* ia
the embarrassed way of a power that
has fop many *by**s under it* font;
not even to dissertate like the sopbwU
of ron4*atw*°ldc the quibble* ol
political d.gma. the law, di»’nu or so-
cial, tba source of leritimuy of gov
ernment; the rights of a family over a
people, or of a people over a family.
Let us leave such things to moments ol
peace and vain disputation, and their
solution to times and deeds, which alone
can resolve them. Let us sneak there
of the present and the future; let us
establish there and prolific theo
ries of rights and liberty; let os infuse
our religious, moral, progressive sen
timents into the laws; let us there re
call to human nature what she owes to
herself,what she owes to the generation
she is pregnant with; let us make her
comprehend the epoch before her eyes,
and which she sees not; let us show
her this age, opened for great things,
and yet ready to precifiCtate itself into
vain quarrels of worths and persons,
into political inanities, inlo sterile wars,
into national ruin, into European ea
amities, if she do not seise it imme
diately, if she does not gather the fruit
ripe to-day, to-morrow rotten! Let us
descend thence to the interests of the
day; let us help tho democracy to or
ganize itself, to live; let us give it
guides, make it laws, create morals for
it, For it alone is all the future of the
world; especially let us teach it, that
it cannot live without form, that the
form of all political reality is a govern
ment; that the life of every regular
government is a strong and true exec
utive that this executive cannot be the j
mobile expression of inconstant fac
tions, the perpetual work of popular.
caprice; that it wants root in the soil
to resist tempests; that the roots arc
organic laws, which inu9t attach it to
the country, and communicate to its
limbs the sap which it will there ex
tract. Let us remind it, that to be a
free people, it does not suffice to write
the word liberty on the frontispiece of
its government; but that it must stamp
it on the very foundations; aud, “from
turret to foundntion-stone,” fabricate of
the social edifice an harmonious whole
of rights, duties, discussion, election
and liberty. Above all, let us prove to
it, that it should be just, and that the
right of all only lives in the right of
each. Despotism can subsist on a
false base, because it depends on force;
liberty cannot, because she relies on
ustice. If the right of a single one is
ivantiug in its conditions, its foundation
links, and it crumbles to atoms.
Let us often raise the looks of men,
aur thought and our voice, towards
that regulating Power from whom flow,
according to Plato and our gospel, jus
tice, the laws, and liberty; who alone
knows to extract good from evil; who
holds in His hands the reigns of em
pires, and shakes them often rudely
and with violence, to arouse mankind
from their slumbers, and remind them
that they must walk in the road of their
divine destiny toward light and virtue;
that impulse of human nature towards
aeaven is not in fractions—it is an in
aer force, it is the faith of humanity in
progress. Let us recall to ourselves
this force and this faith, in times of
doubt and trial; let us put trust in that
Providence whose eyes overlook not
ige nor day; let us do good, tell truth,
leek the right, and wait.
Adieu, sir; whilst useless to my
country, I am going to seek the vestiges
»f history, the monuments of Christian
regeneration, and the distant echo of
profane or sacred poesy in the sands of
Egypt, on the ruins of Palmyra, or at
:he tomb of David. May you not as
iist at new ruins, nor prepare for his
tory the funeral pages of a people,
which still bears in itself centuries of
Life, prosperity, and glory! May the
generous hearts and spirits which this
earth produces in each generation,
without ever exhausting her supply of
genius aud virtue, extinguish their tri
vial discussions in the sense of their
common duty, and guard that future of
France, which France alone can keep
or do away with! That is the wish of
the most devoted of her sons, who only
quits her for a day, because she does
not require him; whom she can sum
mon at any hour, and who only thinks
his thoughts or steps free while be can
not better employ them for her, and do
her service or honor otherwise.*
Alluding to bis joorney to the Cut
Frrwnrt* ?Cua-Tte«*fc«nt4f Practical Chriftaln Extra-
WHERE!* U THE If If ITER STATES
tONfcTITITIO! AWTI-CH BISTAI*t
Not per ic as a compact of civil soci
ety for the people of this nation, volun
tarily associated. Not in Us general
ends, or its declared fundamental prin
ciples. Not in the majority of its pre
scriptive sections or clauses. Not in
its primary or mor/important uses. But
in several of its practically influential
assuniytfDaa, prescriptions slid require
ments; which, in spUe of its declared
objects, principles and uses, stamp it
as unequivocally auU-Chnstiao.
It assumes the necessity, justice aud
expediency of arar, and military de
structiveness as Us dernier resort for
self-preservation, defence and respect.
It expresses no desire, gives no hint,
and of course makes no provision for
superseding war with peace, or military
force with Christian preventative*. It
clothes Congress with almost unlimited
[tower to declare war, glint letters of
marque and reprisal, support aa army
and navy, frame a martial code, train
the uiiUli*. and da all things necessary
to the maintenance of a complete war
systeip- Hence eighty per cent, of the
public rev none ordfnariTv eocs for this
abhorrent purpose. It makes the duel
magistrate genet*afuMntnb by Wfttf arwl
sea, and pledges him to exercise bii
military functions «n aO occasions of for
eign invasion or domestic insurrection
la all these respects it as unequivocal!)
amii-cSutntwm.
It
and caucus, citha explicitly or unpl*
citly, to promt*? it their allegiance and
support, without the lea* reserve! ior
tn la cor of conscientious scruples oft ant
point. In this it is ank-Chriatum.
It in a pro-slavery compact. Macs
i holders ami noa-slrebokicr* meet togellr
er, both in fanning and raliiying.it, aitfc
a mutual recognition of each other's
moral and political fitness to be citizen:
and rulers in a professedly rcpublicai
government; which of itself was a prac
tical denial of republican liberty. Nr
man is morally fit to be trusted with thr
liberties of the people, who robs h»«
fellow-men of all their self-evident rights
Its framers and ratiiicrs held among
them, six or seven hundred thousand
slaves. Vet this .Constitution neithci
abolished slavery, nor provided for U*
f future abolishment, nor condemned it
as a sin against God, man or liberty,
nor lainentedcd it ms an fevil, nor ex
pressed a desirre for its cessation, nor
so much as mentioned it by name. It
designedly avoids the honest use of the
terms by which slaves, slavery and
slaveholding havo ever been popularly
designated.
Neither did it abolish the abominable
foreign slave trade, which was then in
full career; hut actually profit h'Utd the
abolition therof even by n nundinal!, for
twenty years; without giving the slight
est pledge that after the year HH the
traffic should be suppressed.—Thus it
sanctioned and pledged national pro
tection to unmitigated piracy against
humanity. It did all this without one
solitary expression of shame, sorrow or
compunction.
It gave slaveholders a preponderating
political weight in the election of Pres
ident .and Vice President, and in the
lower branch of the National Legisla
ture, to the extent of three fifths of nil
their slaves; whence has resulted o
slave holding oligarchy in the gov-|
ernmcnt,and innumerable evils to the
country. It pledged all the citizens J
of the United States to deliver up
fugitive slaves on demand of persons
claiming them under the laws ofa slave
holding State, just as if they were act
ual felons, w hereby thousands of unfor
tunate people have been subjugated,
not only to recapture, but to all manner
of cruelties for the innocent act of try
ing to obtain by peaceful flight their
natural and inalienable rights.
It pledged the whole natural force of
purse and arms to protect slaveholders
against domestic violence, though nat
urally and wantonly provoked py out
rage and inhumanity under the system
of slavery. In this way U.S.Constitu
tion clandestinely but effectually en
dorsed the moral and republican char
acter of slaveholders, held out a bounty
of extra political power to the perpetra
tors of new and aggravated outrages on
the rights of man, installed the slave
trade as a legitimate branch of national
commerce for twenty years, cut olFthe
slaves from all hope of deliverance
either by flight or resistance, made the
Federal government Jailer to the slave
states, opened the door to a long series
of slavocratic usurpations, and com
pletely implicated the whole nation in the
guilt of an institution which aggregates
and involves all the wickedness which
human beings can commit against one
another or their Creator. All this is
as clearly demonstrable as that two
and two make four.
Yet this Constitution was framed and
adopted by a people professing unboun
ded reverence for republican liberty and
the natural rights of man. And it con
tinues to be suported on oath or affirm
ation by such a people, thus far to the
triumphant march, extension and con
solidation of slavery.
That it may be seen how jealously
this Constitution guards the £>irty ofi
Republicanism agatnst the tyranny off
Jdonarchy and the insidious encroach
ments of foreign influence, read the fol
lowing article:
“If any citizen of the United States
shaH accept, claim, receive or retain 1
any title of nobility or honor, or shall,'
without the consent of Congress, accept
and retain any present, pension, office
or emolument of any kind whatsoever,
from any emperor, king, prince, or for
eign power, such person shall cease to
he a citizen of the United States, and
shall be incapable of holding any office
of trust or profit under them, or either
of them.**
Thus it appears that if*a citizen of
the United States, without a special act
of indulgence from Congress, should
accept of a cane, or a tin medal, or a
red ribbon from 4tueen Victoria, he
would forfeit all the rights and hon
ors of citizenship, lie could neither
vote nor hold office. He would reader
himself uuworthy of membership in the
civil society of this liberty-loving Re
public. But he may hold 1000 slaves not
only without reproach, but with addi
tional political influence,and with the so
-1 iemn pledge ofthenatioothat if his slaves
run away from him, tha/ shall be de
i tivered up to him m demand, aad tf
they rebel agamst his tyrouuy* Ihay
i shall be crushed by irresistible force,
t at the public expense, into passive sub
mission. And these republican rn«>n*
arch-i of the plantation, tat and sleek
,on the spoil* of liberty', may he made
President* itc. Stc., —-made the Special
guardians of the very liberty *e ym-
I oust y guarded from the taint of a ftvyai
bribe. To accept a royal ribboo die
»fraachiaea aad all but out Laws a citia—
ITo bold as slaves hundreds of folios
creatures is meritorious. Who wd
i swear to support snob aa anU-Cbristiai
CopstiiuUvtn Le* ao man that name;
‘the name of Christ blast his conaeieat?
.to assuming such a fearfully criimua
jramonsibility.
J Hortriu, Mats., Sept.
abort** •J**?
I way to leva with hewor aa the world, a
kj to be in reality frbat wa would •PIK J
to be.
JOILN DICK,
WHOLE NO—Bo.
***.%i.r i v non.
In Lothing is Ihe inequality of tb
»ex*v». in social rights, exhibited nion
strikingly or painiiilly than in the simil
compensation usually paid tor temah
Ulnir. Female* are often required 1
i don loan's day's work with the needle
but because they nre female*. they an
only allowed one quarter of a man'
wages. In fact thousands of womei
>n J young girls in onr large cities art
compelled, bv necessity, to work foe i
pittance insufficient to sustain life am
it does not sustain it, for in a few year
they die. Others arc dri\ en by want
privation and suffering to actual crime
j The great majority of capmakers, shir
makers, braid and flower-sewers, am
workers on pants and rests, cannot, bj
all the physical ability they (Hawes*
earn enough tu. support themselves
comfortably and preserve fteaith.
i This is one of the crying sins of on»
social system. The protection ol
labor” is ft theme on almost every jk»l
-itician's tongue the reward of im
dustry” is an cvcrv-day topic for otn
statesmen's eloquence the greatest
good of the greatest number” is the
common appeal to the patriotism of the
common people. But all this happens
t<> be, practically an.l in effect, for man.
Woman has never yet attained to rights
of citizenship, and is excluded from
legislation, only so far us penal statutes
are concerned, which punish her for
the very sins she is absolutely compell
ed to commit.
Something mint be done for our work
ing-women. They are the very salt of
this earth why arc they treated like
outcasts and vagabonds They are
virtuous and industrious they are wil
ling to earn all they need why are
they obliged to both work and starve
Alas, man, inhuman and sordid, has
become callous-hearted and soul-im
bruted with the inordinate spirit ofguir,
and will sacritice a hundred of thu
bodies and souls of unoffending and in
nocent females, to add a few more dol
lars to his already enormous profits.
We believe this subject is a proper one
for legislation and any man guilty of
paying less than a living compensation
for work, is a proper subject for fin*
and imprisonment.— JY*. Y. Organ.
Women. —The disadvantages under
which women meet the trial* and diffi
culties of life, has of late met the atten
tion of philanthropist* in a degree much
greater than formerly. A* a nation
advances in civilization, woman as
sumes a more important part in the
great drama of life, and many efforts
are now in the course of aetionto place
her where she of right ought to be, on a
perfeot equality with man. Our neigh
bor of the Saturday Visiter is doing her
share in her own sphere to aid in thi*
emancipation of her sex; other women
are working for the san:c end, by differ
ent means.
Our attention was directed- to thin
subject by a paragraph in the Philadel
phia Times, from which we learn, that
the young woman whose attendance
upon a course of inedieni lectures was
noticed by us some month* since, is
now a resident assistant Physician in
the Almshouse .in that city, that she
visits the several wards, and perform*
all the duties incumbent upon her in a
highly creditable manner.
We are rejoiced at the success of
this pioneer in the cause of Woman’*
emancipation; and trust that her effort
to establish a College lor the instruc
tion of her own sex in the science of
medicine, may be properly appreciated,
and enjoy all the prosperity such noble
exertions would seem to deserve.—
Pittsburgh Dispatch.
AN APPKOfItIATK' ItEPIIEttENTA*
TiVK.
Tbo following refers to the repre
sentative of South Carolina, in the late
Democratic Convention, (says tbo
Young America,) who was allowed to
cast the full vote of the State:
A correspondent of the Herald, writ
ing from Baltimore, says:
"John Van Burcn will have tha
chivalrous (Jen. Commander offer him
with a long pole, as soon as lib Park
speech reaches South Carolina. He
touched the Gene rat on a sore point
when he called him Gen. Cat-and
ninr-tails,” though probably without
knowing that lie was doing so, which i
will endeavor to explain. Although
the general is a »maU planter now, ho
was until recently an overseer on cot
ton plantations. The lest situation of
this kind he held, he lost by the too free
use of the "ca'-siul-niue-tails,” on the
bai e back of one of hi* employer's fe
male slave*. .)t appear* that he order
ed one ot the field hands to wash and
do up his linen, which she being in-sx
pert at, did not do up to im satisfaction.
He accordingly took her out in the field
and cwt her most unmercifully with the
cat-atid-niim-taiU; indeed, so brutal was
the whipping, that lie wax immediately
discharged. He ihcu commenced a
suit against the planter for bat salary
for the remainder of the year, and for
the value of the “hog and hominy,” he
wouldhave eaten *1 that tune. The
case was called the **cat-and'nine-t«il■
ease, and the jury gave him bis salary,
hut refused to award huu the value ol
the hog *fid hominy.
w ill ssto irc the appropriate****
till** Prince John has given him. Mi I
1 apprehend that it oftC that wjfl iWB
rto him through t»fh—- Y& **Js**?**'*
f CuxJi*ct*«awic.—Aa American la
dy wh® had hems riefc at Marseilles,
I and tmd retired men* kind attentions
from mam oifhMr both French and
(Faffwh, asked to give her opinion
respecting the two classes of ber »yiu<
pathisers li*r reply was, limy
were both very kind. The French la
dies brought m iwrsn i| day; the
ladies sat up with 'me ail
Notices.
N«* Twk AatMhvetr
The Executive ('oMittee will w*<
Tuesday evening next, Sept. 26, at *l*«
Antt-SlaVery Office, 26, Buffalo Street.
Attendance is requeued xt 7 o'clock pre*
carol v.
W. C. NELL, Rec. Sec.
AilMlarerr Xcetiaf.
Tar Gtxev* Lame*’ A. S. 8. Society
pi re notice that they hare secured the ser
vices of Mr. FatDC«fc« Doer,lash, to deliver
an address before them on the evening of the
third Wednesday of October. The public
are respectfully invited to attend.
Mas. BLAND, See.
Mas. MARY JEFFRY, Pres.
Autfeftluvery t’euveutiou at Harwich.
During the day previous to that appointed
fi»r the Convention, there were strong indica
tion* of a storm, which made the friends
apprehensive that the meeting would be a
failure, as it was to ba held in a grove.
There were meeting-houses, and acbteU
houses, and a large academy, all unoccupied.
y«A the claims of humanity may not be urged
in them.
However, at the time appointed came fair
weather; and an audience of upwards of a
hundred assembled in a beautiful grove, just
targe enough, iost shady enough, and alto
gether right,—last year when a similar meet
tag was held, only about half a dozen came
together. The general subjects of Freedom
and Slavery were discussed during the day,
and remarks made calculated to produce a
sense of individnal responsibility, of self-re
spect, and of true independence.
Friday Morning. Met, according to ad
journment. The meeting was organised,
Zebina H. Small being appointed President,
and Esekiel Thatcher Vice President.—
Charles Steams and Lucy Stone, Secretaries.
A Committee on Finance was also appointed,
but the names were lost.
Parker Pillabury presented the following
resolutions:—
1. Resolved, That our nation's Religion is
a lie, and our government a crime—deserving
not the support, but the execration of every
friend of justice and humanity.
2. Resolved, That the mass of our minis
ters are monsters in human form, boasting
that they have power to abolish Slavery in
one single year, and yet sanctifying and sup
porting it from year to year.
3. Resolved, That oui Constitution is a
covenant with death, our Union an agreement
with hell—binding the people cf all the
States, to sustain and support the Slave
breeding, Slave-trading and Slave-holding of
the South.—
4. Resolved, That such a government is
treason to the Majesty of Heaven, rebellion
against the government of God—and to vote
under it or to hold office in it, knowing its
character, is a crime, scarcely less than blas
phemy against the Holy Ghost.
5. Resolved, That the only recommenda
tion of General Taylor to the Presidency, is
his BLOOD-HOU N D butchery of the Semi
nole Indians, and his successful massacre of
the Mexicans, at the command of Slavery—
both of which atrocities were sternly op
posed by the Whig party, from whence came
his nomination to the highest office in the
people's gift.
6. Resolved, That the surperlative mean
ness and unparalleled sycophancy of General
Gass, in crawling down to lick the spittle of
Southern Slaveholders, was the only recom
meniation and eligibility he possessed, to be
the candidate of the democratic party for the
Presidency of the United States.
7. Resolved, That James G. Birney was
dropped by the Liberty Party, on the ground
that John P. Hale {who was never an abo
iitionst) was the more available candidate—
and now J. P. Hale is superseded by Martin
Van Buren, {an open enemy oj Anti-Slavery,)
for the same reason—which shows that party
as devoid of integrity and fixed principle, as
either of the others.
8. That the only true and righteous ground
to which intelligent and honest men can come,
is that of entire separation from all voluntary
support of the government, the Constitution
aud the Union; inscribing bravely on their
banners, with determined spirits and trust in
God, UNION WITH FREEDOM, UNION
WITH JUSTH E, BUT NO UNION
WITH SLAVERY NOR SLAVEHOLD
ERS.
The first resolution was discussed in the
affirmative during the day, and the two fol
lowing days, by Parker Pillsbury, W. W.
Brown, Samuel Smith, S. S. Foster, Rev.
Davis Lathrop, Win. Hunt, Lewis Ford,
Joahua H. Robbins, F. Clark, Charles
Stearns, and Lucy Stone and in the negative,
by Rev. Abel Tomkins. Miscellaneous re
marks were made by Ezra Taylor, Elkanah
Nickerson, James Lawrence, Eldndge, and
others.
The pro-slavery character of the church
and clergy was moat fully exposed,—its
hypocritical mask torn off effectually, and our
nation's religion proved to be a lie. Never
were words of earnest remonstrance, and
calm rebuke, more faithfully uttered. Never
did the spirit of pro-slavery writhe in greater
agony then on this occasion, when its naked
dcfoimity was exhibited, while none were
found able to throw around it shield, or covet
ing. Towards the close of the meeting on
Saturday, an effort was made to create dis
turbance, by some young men, who were
trying to persuade a man (said to be half
crazed, but who notwithstanding, said many
true things) to interrupt and disturb the
speakers, and when allusion was made to the
conduct of these disturbers, they (probably
as others would not suppose themselves qd
dreeaed) came up around the platform, led on
by one Nathaniel Chase, Jr., who used the
most insulting language to the speakers on
the platform, mingled with the question from
one and another ‘Do you call me a rowdy?’
and shouts of 1 throw them down Where is
the darky?' Ate. Order was at length restored,
and the meeting was closed by a song from
w. W, Brown, and the people quietly dis
jKTsed.—Liberator.
Bbief History or the Navy.—The new
work lately published by authority, and com
pilsd from the records of the navy department,
thns briefly sums up the casualties” among
naval officers since the United Stales have had
a navy;
Died VM4
Killed in action
Killod in duels tf|
Killed by accidents 7
Drowned «7
Ix«t st sea 87
Murdered 6
Resigned I 35
Daisnnaced 402
Cekirred 51
Discharged under peace establish
ment 277
Dior barged 106
la urt appearance or unknown 645
Deserted 3
in service
5,768
JTibaway Slav*.—Quit® interesting
caae of a runaway slave waa tried at the
CentreviUe jail, before Justine Rowbsonon,
last week. The negro's name is Jim Hawk
ins, and be is claimed as a ruosyay by a geo
tfeinan of Prince George’s cousty, ssmsd
Bowling. Jim says be is free, and that be
was liberated by Dr. Denny, of Baltimore
Ins identity could not be established, however
though the testimony at limes wore a very
threatening aspect against Jim's liberation.
After examining witnesses, and bearing couo
»el on both sides, tbe rase was postponed til)
the 30th iusl.— Et. pep>r.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 29, 184 ft.
Am Address «e the Oils red People sf the
United States.
Fellow CocNTtrnnt:—
Under a solemn sense of duty, inspired by
our relation to you as fellow sufferers under
tbe multiplied and grievous wrongs to which
we as a people are universally subjected,—
we, a portion of your brethren, assembled in
National Convention, at Cleveland, Ohio, take
tbe liberty fo address you on the subject of our
mutual improvement and social elevation.
The condition of our variety of the human
family, hat long been cheerless, if not hope
less, in this country. The doctrine persever
tafly proclaimed in high places is church and
state, that it is impossible for colored men to
rise from ignorance and debasement, to in
telligence and respectability in ibis country,
has made a deep impression upon the public
mind generally, and is not without its effect
upon us. Under this gloomy doctrine, many
of us have sunk under tbe pall of despondency,
and are making ao effort to relieve ourselves,
and have no heart to assist others. It is from
this despond that we would deliver you. It is
from this slumber we would rouse you. The
present, is a period of activity sod hope. The
heavens above us are blight, and much of the
darkness that overshadowed os baa passed
away. We can deal in the language of bril
liant encouragement, and speak of success
with certainty. That our condition baa been
gradually improving, is evident to all, and
that we shall yet stand on a common platform
with our fellow countrymen, in respect to po
litical and social rights, is certain. The spirit
of the age—the voiee of inspiration—the deep
longings pf the human soul —the conflict of
right with wrong—the upward tendency of
the oppressed throughout the world, abound
with evidence complete and ample, of the final
triumph of right over wrong, of freedom over
slavery, and equality over caste. To doubt
this, is to forget the past, and blind our eyes
to the present, as well as to deny and oppose
the great law of progress, written out by the
hand of God on the human soul.
Great changes for the better have taken
place and are still taking place. The last ten
years have witnessed a mighty change in the
estimate in which we as a people are regard
ed, both in this and other lands. England
has given liberty to nearly one million, and
France has emancipated three hundred thou
sand of our brethren, and our own country
shakes with the agitation of our rights. Ten
or twelve years ago, an educated colored man
was regarded as a curiosity, and the thought
of a colored man as an author, editor, lawyer
or doctor, had scarce been conceived. Such,
thank Heaven, is no longer the case. There
are now those among us, whom we are not
ashamed to regard as gentlemen and scholars,
and who are acknowledged to be such, by
many of the most learned and respectable in
our land. Mountains of prejudice have been
removed, and truth and light are dispelling the
error and darkness of ages. The time was,
when we trembled in the presence of a white
man, and dared not assert, or even ask for our
rights, but would be guided, directed, and
governed, in any way we were demanded,
without ever stopping to enquire whether we
were right or wrong. We were not only
slaves, but our ignoranoe made us willing
slaves. Many of us uttered complaints
against the faithful abolitionists, for the broad
assertion of our rights; thought they went too
far, and were only making our condition
worse. This sentiment has nearly ceased to
reign in the dark abodes of our hearts; we
begin to see our wrongs as clearly, and com
prehend our rights as fully, and as well as our
white countrymen. This is a sign of progress;
and evidence which cannot be gainsayed. It
would be easy to present in this connection, a
glowing comparison of our past with our pres
ent condition, showing that while the former
was dark and dreary, the present is full of
light and hope. It would be easy to draw a
picture of- our present achievements, and
erect upon it a glorious future.
But, fellow countrymen, it is not so much
our purpose to cheer you by the progress we
have already made, as it is to stimulate you
to still higher attainments. We have done
much, but there is much more to be done.—
j While wc have undoubtedly great cause to
thank Gud, and take courage for the hopeful
changes which have taken place in our condi
tion, we are not without cause to mourn over
the sad condition which we yet occupy. We
are yet the most oppressed people in the
world. In the Southern states of this Union,
we are held as slaves. All over that wide
region our paths are marked with blood. Our
backs are yet scarred by the lash, and our
souls are yet dark under the pall of slavery.—
Our sisters are sold for purposes of pollution,
and our brethren are sold in the market, with
beasts of burden. Shut up in the prison-house
of bondage—denied all rights, and deprived
of all privileges, we are blottod from the page
of human existence, and placed beyond the
limits of human regard. Death, moral
death, has palsied our souls in that quarter,
and we arc a murdered people.
In the Northern stales, we are not slaves to
individuals, aot personal slaves, yet in many
respects we are the slaves of the community.
We are, however, for enough removed from
the actual condition of the slave, to make us
largely responsible for their continued en sfeve
ment, or their speedy deliverance from chains.
For in the proportion which we shall rise in
i the scale of human improvement, in that pro
portion do we augment tbe probabilities of a
speedy emaneipation of our enslaved fcliow
countrymen. It is more than a mere figure
iof speech to say, that we are aa a people,
chained together. We are one people—one
j in general complexion, one in a deg
radation, one in popular estimation. Aa coe
j rises, all must rise, and aa one fella all moat
fall. Having now, our feet on tbs rock oi
freedom, we most drag our brethren from the
slimy depths of slavery, ignorance, sod ram.
j Every one of us should be -ihimsii to nnsaid
or himself free, while his brother is a slave.—
Tbs wrongs sf mu brethren, should he out
eoostast theme. There should be no time top
precious, no calling too boly, no place too eJ
ered, to make room for thu cause. We
should not only feel it to be the cause of hu
manity, but the mam at ehristtamty, and fit
work for men and angels. We ask you to
devote yourselves to this cause, as one of the
first, and most successful means of uolf im-
provement.* Is that careful study of ft, yos
will learn voaf own rights, and numpto hrod
tbe vista of coming rime, your high, and God
appointed destiny. Many of tbs brightest end
beet of our number, have become such by toeir
devotion to this cause, sad the somety of white
abolitionists. The fetter bate been willing to
make themselves sf in reputation forsur sake,
and in return, let ns show ourselves worthy
of their teal and devotion. Attend Anti-sfe
very meetings, show that you are interested
in the subject, that yon hate slavery, and fore
those who ats laboring for is overthrow.—
Act with white Abolition societies wherever
you can, and where you cannot, get op soci
eties among yourselves, but without exclusive
ness. It will be a long time before we gain
all our rights and although it may seem to
conflict with our views of human brotherhood,
we shall undoubtedly for many years be com
pelled to have institutions of a complexions
character, in order to attain this very idea of
human brotherhood. We would, however,
advise our brethren to occupy memberships
and stations among white persona, and in
white institutions, just so fast as our rights
are secured to us.
Never refuse to act with a white society or
institution because it is white, or a black
one, because it is black. Bat act with al*
men without distinction of color. By so act
ing, we shall find many opportunities for re
moving prejudices and establishing the rights
of all men. We say avail yourselves of white
institutions, not because they are white, bat
because they afford a more convenient means
of improvement. But we pass from these
suggestions, to others which may be deemed
more important. In tbe Convention that now
addresses yon, there has been much said on
the subject of labor, and especially those de
partments of it, with which w f e as a class have
been long identified. You will see by the
resolutions there adopted on that subject, that
the Convention regarded those employments
though right in themselves, as being never
ibeltjs, degrading to us as a class, and there*
fore, counsel you to abandon them as speedily
as possible, and to seek what are called the
more respectable employments. While the
Convention do not inculcate the doctrine that
any kind of needful toil is in itself dishonora
ble, or that colored persons are to be exempt
from what are'called.menial employments, they
do mean to say that such employments have
been so long and universally filled by colored
men, as to become a badge of degradation, in
that it has established the conviction that col
ored men are only fit for such employments.
We therefore, advise you by all means, to
cease from such employments, as far as practi
cable, by pressing into others. Try to get your
sons into mechanical trades press them into
the blacksmith’s shop, the machine shop, the
joiner's shop, the wheelright’s shop, the
cooper’s shop, and the tailor’s shop.
Every blow of the sledge hammer, wield
ed by a sable arm, is a powerful blow in
support of our cause. Every colored me
chanic, is by virtue of circumstances, an ele
vator of his race. Every house built by black
men, is a strong tower against the allied hosts
of prejudice. It is impossible fur us to attach
too much importance to this aspect of the sub
ject. Trades are important. Wherever a
man may be thrown by misfortune, if he has
in his hands a useful trade, he is, useful to his
fellow man, and will be esteemed accordingly;
and of all men in the world who need trades
we are the most needy.
Understmd this, that independence is an
essential condition of respectability. To be
dependent, is to be degraded. Men may in
deed pity us, but they cannot respect us. We
do not mean that we can become entirely in
dependent of all men that would be absurd
and impossible, in the social state. But we
mean that we must become equally iudepen
dent with.other members of tbe community.
That other members of the community shall
be as dependent upon us, as we upon them.—
That such is not now the case, is too plain to
uced an argument. The houses we live in
are built by white men—the clothes we wear
arc made by white tailors—the hats on our
heads are made by white hatters, and the shoes
on our feet are made by white shoe-makers,
and the food that we eat, is raised and culti- i
vated by whits men. Now it is impossible
that we should ever be respected as a people,
while we are so universally and completely
dependent upon white men for the necessaries
of life. We must make white persons as de
pendent upon us, as we are upon them. This
cannot be done while we are found only in!
two or three kinds of employments, and those]
employments have their foundation chiefly, is
not entirely, iu the pride and indolence of tbJ
white people. Sterner necessities, will brio J
higher respect,
Tbe fact is, we must not merely make thJ
white roan dependent upon us to shave h*«l
but to feed him; not merely dependent upoJ
us to black his boots, but to make them, ifl
man is only in a small degree dependent os ul
when he only needs his bouts blacked, m hffi
carpet bag canted as a hide fees pride, and
little more industry on bis part, may enable hiu
to dispense with our services entirely. As wise
men it becomes us to look forward to a stats
of things, which appears inevitable. Tbe
time will come, when those menial employ
ments will afford less means of living than
they now do. What shall a large class ol
i our fellow countrymen do, when whits men
find it economical to black their swr boots,
and shave themselves. What wiU they do
when white men learn to wait on themselves
i We warn you brethren, to seek other and
more enduring vocation*,
i Let os entreat you to tare your attention to
agriculture. Go to farming. Be tillers ol
i the sod. Oh this point we could say much,
hot the time and space will not permit. Out
i dues are overran with mesial laborers, while
the country taeJoqneatly pleading for the hand
i of industry to tiß her sod, sad reap the ro
i ward of boneat’fehur. We beg and iatresi
f yon, to save your mooev—live economically—
i dispense with finery, and the gaitiee which
have tendered us proverbial, and save you
money. Nat for) the senseless purpose et
being bettor off than you neighbor, but that
r you may ho able to adeems your children,
and reader you ehare to the common stock oi
prosperity and happiness around you. it is
i plant that the equably whisk ws ana to an
cumpksh, can only he achieved by as, whan
t we can do far others, just what others can ds
i for os. Wo should therefore, press into all
t j the trades, pteforefoos andcaUugs, into which
1 booorsfafe w hite ana pram.
We would ta this couwcCtten, dfcuet jour
attention to tkffimeeiw by whfeliwuhHvu been
oppressed and degraded. Chief suMtg those
means, we auf mention the pec an This en
gine has brought to the aid of prejudice, u
thousand stings. Wit, ridicule, fefee philoso
phy, and aa impure theology,
low black-guanhmn, come through this chan
nel tato tbe phbite mind constantly feeding
sad keeping alive against as, the bitterest hate.
Tbe pulpit too, has been arrayed against us.
Men with sanctimonious fees, have talked of
our Ming descendants oi Ham that we
•ro under a suras, and to try to improve oar
condition, is virtually to counteract the pur
poses of God!
It fe easy to tee that the means which have
been used to destroy tie, mast be used to lave
us. Tbe press must be used in our behalf
aye! we meet nee it oaredvea; we must
take and read newnapers; we must read
hooka, improve our nJBi, end pot to silence
and to shame, our opposere.
Dear Brethren, we have extended these re
marks beyond the length which we had allot
ted to ourselves, and roust now dose, though
we have but hinted at the subject. Trusting
that our words may foil like good seed upon
good ground; and hoping that we may all be
found in the path of improvement and pro
grc»»
We are your friends and servants,
(Signed by the Committee, in behalf
of the Convention)
FREDERICK DOUGLASS,
H. 8188,
W. L. DAY,
D. H. JENKINS,
A. H. FRANCIS.
11, G, Warner, Esq., (Editor of the
Rochester Courier.)
Sir :—My reasons—l will not say my apol
ogy* for addressing to you this letter, will be
come evident, by perusing the following brief
statement of facts.
About the middle of August of the present
year—deeply desiring to give my daughter, a
child between nine and ten years old, the ad
vantages of a good school—and learning that
Seward Seminary” of this city was an in-'
stitution of that character—l applied to its
principal, Miss Tracy, for tbe admission of my
daughterjintO'ihat Seminary. The principal—
after making suitable enquiries into the child's
mental qualifications, and informing me of the
price of tuition per term, agreed to receive
the child into the school at the commencement
of the September term. Here we parted. I
went home, rejoicing that my child was about
to enjoy advantages for improving her mind,
and fitting her for a useful and honorable life.
I supposed that the principal would be as good
as her word—and was more disposed to his
belief, when I learned that she was an aboli
tionist—a woman of religious principles and
integrity—and would be faithful in the per
formance of her promises, as she bad been
prompt in making them. In all this I have been
grievously—if not shamefully disappointed.
While absent from home, on a visit to
Cleveland, with a view to advance the cause
of education and freedom among my despised
fellow countrymen—with whom 1 am in all
respects identified, the September term of
the Seward Seminary” commenced, and my
daughter was promptly sent to th«u school.
But instead of receiving her into mne school
according to agreement —and ad in honor the
principal was bound to do, she was merely
thrust into a room separate from all other
scholars, and in this prison-like solitary con
finement received the occasional visits of a
teacher appointed to instruct her. On my re
turn home, I found her still going to school,
and not knowing the character of the treatment
extended to her, I asked with a light heart, as
I took her to mjyaide, well, my daughter, how
do you get on at the Seminary She an
swered with tears in her eyes, 1 get along
pretty well, but father Miss Tracy does not
allow me to go into the room with the other
scholars because lam colored Slung to the
heart's core by this grievous statement, and
suppressing my feelings as well as I could, I
went immediately to the Seminary to remon
strate with the principal against the cruelty
and injustice of treating ray child as a criminal
on account of her color—subjecting her to soti-
I tary confinement because guilty of a skin not
colored like hex own. In answer to all that
I I could say against such treatment, I was an
swered by the principal, that since she prom-
Stjaed to receive the child into school, she
ihad consulted with the trustees, (a body of
I believe unknown to the public,) and
I that they were opposed to the child’s admission
|to the school—that she thought at first of dis
regarding their opposition, but when she re-
Rnembered how much they had done for her
In sustaining the institution, she did not feel
mi liberty to do ao; but abe thought if I allow
ed her to remain and be taught separately for
I. term or more, that the prejudice might be
Overcome, sad the child admitted into tbe
School with the other young ladies and misses.
Bit a lost to know what to do for the best in
®rut of the child, I consulted with Mis.
hrogfero and others, and the result of tbe
ouauhatiou was, to take my child from the
Seminary, as allowing her to remain there in
such circumstances, could only serve to de
grade her in her own eyes, and those oi the
other scholars attending tbe school. Before,
however, carrying out my determination to
withdraw tbe child from the Seminary, Mias
Tracy, the principal, submitted the question oi
the child’s reception to each scholar individual
ly, and 1 am sorry to say, in a manner well
calculated to rouse their prejudices against
her. She told them if there was one objection
to receiving her, she should be excluded and
said if any of theta felt that she had a preju
dice, and that that prejudice needed to be
tfreegthened, that they might have time te
whisper among themselves, in order to in
crease and strengthen that projudioe. Toons
young lady who voted to receive the child,
she said, as if fe utoauhment; “did you
mean to vote so? Are you accustomed to black
pctaomV* Tbe young fedystood silent; the
question was so extraordinary, and withal
so ambiguous, that she knew not what answer
to make to it. D**piie however, of tiro no
womanly seuduet of the principal, (who, what
ever may ha her religious feitb, has not yet
learned thu ampfaet pnneipleof Christianity—
do to others as ye would that others shswld ds
unto you)—thanks to the uaeorraptihle virtue
"fchtidhood and youth, in the fetuses of then
Mao *f them, to share with them tits Menmngv
and privilege* of the school; and when asked
»here the should ait if admitted, several
ymng ladies ■boated By me, by
After lb matidestmJoa «f mtimnl on lb
pwt of ifte Khofen, one would bare ooppooed
bat ail oppnaitMHi on the pvt of the principal
would bare ceased but bis was aut «be case
The child’s admission was subjected to a se
verer test. Each scholar was then told by the
principal, (bat the question most be submitted
to tbeif parents, and that if owe parent object
ed, the child would not be received into the
school. The neat morning nsr child went to
school as ssual, but returned with her books
and other materials, saying that one person
abated, and that aha was thuirfnri sirluitiul
from the Seminar
Now, sir, these are the whole beta, with
one important exception, and that fact is, that
you are the person, the only person of all the
parents sending young ladies and misses to
that Seminary, who was hardened and mean
enough to take the responsibility of excluding
that child from school. Isay, to you exclu
sively belongs the honor or infomy, of attempt
ing to degrade an hmoeent child by excluding
her from the benefit of attending respectable
school.
If thia were a private affair, only affecting
myself and family, I should possibly allow it to
pass without attracting public attention to it;
but such is not the case. It is a deliberate at
tempt to degrade and injure a large class of
persons, whose rights and fadings hare been
the common sport of yoomdf, and such per
sons as yourself, for ages, and 1 thiak it Bit
wise to allow you to do as with impunity.—
Thank God, oppressed and plundered as we
are, and bare been, we are not without help.
We hare a press, open and free, and have am
ple means by which we are able to proclaim
our wrongs as a people, and your uwn infamy,
and that proclamation shall be as complete as
the means in my power can make it. There
is a sufficient amount of liberality in the pub
lic mind of Rochester to see that justice is
done to all parties, and upon that liberality I
rely. The young ladies of the school who
saw the child, and had the best means of de
termining whether her presence in the school
room would be offensive or degrading to them,
have decided in favor of admitting her, with
out a dissenting vote. Out of all the parents
to whom the question of her admission was
submitted, not one, except yourself, objected.
You are in a minority of one. You may not
remain so; there are perhaps others, whom
you may corrupt, and make as much like
yourself in the blindness of prejudice, as any
ordinarily wicked person can be.
But you are still in a minority, and if 1 mis
take not, you will be in a despised minority.
You have already done serious injury to Se
ward Seminary. Three young ladies left the
school immediately after the exclusion of my
daughter, and I have heard of three more, who
had intended to go, but who have now declin
ed going to that institution, because it has giv
en its sanction to that anti-democratic, and
ungodly caste. I am also glad to inform
you that you have not succeeded as you hoped
to do, in depriving my child of the means of a
decent education, or the privilege of going to
an excellent school. She had not been exclu
ded from Seward Seminary five hours, before
she was gladly welcomed into another quite
as respectable, and equally Christian to the one
from which she was excluded. She now sits
in a school among children as pure, and as
white as you or yours, and no one is offended.
Now I should like to know how much better
are you than me, and how much better your
children than mine We are both worms of the
dust, and out children are like us. We dif
fer in color, it is true, (and not much in that
respect,) but who is to decide which color is
most pleasing to G«d, or most honorable
among men But I do not wish to waste
words or argument on one whom I take to be
as destitute of honorable feeling, as he has
shown himseTf full of pride and prejudice.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Hon. John P. Hale.
We owe an especial debt of gratitude to
this gentleman for the pamphlets and valuable
Congressional documents with which he has
favored us during the last Congress among
uhese, a copy of the Treaty with Mexico,
just received. Mr. Hale is not among those
who would keep any portion of his fellow
countrymen ignorant of the laws and politics
of the land. f
We would also express our heartral thanks
to J. R. Giddings and J. G. Palfkit, for
similar favors.— r. o.
ILr’ We have received a letter from our vig
ilant correspondent George W. Gomes, giv
ing cheering accounts of Anti-slavery meet
ings held in the brick Wesley church, Phila
delphia, which were addressed by Lncretia
Mott, C. M. Burleigh, Rush Plainly, and
other distinguished friends of the slave. It
is really a source of sincere pleasure, to see
the lively interest beginning to manifest itself
in the cause of freedom, among the religious
;xjitiou of our peoplein that city. They have
long slumbered, when they should have been
up sod doing, and it is evident that much of
■olid good has bees lost in consequence of this
slumbering on their part. Our correspondent
anys that the people are taking the matter into
their own hands. This is as it ought to be.—
Unless the clergy will come up and take the
bad, our people should take the lead from
them.—r. d.
ID* Our Brother of the Ram’s Horn, thus
largely notices the important Colored Con
vention at Cleveland Ohio. We are thankful
for small favors and are therefore glad that
the Ram’s Horn deigns to notice ns at all.
“The colored people held a Convention last
week, in Ohio, at which Frederick Douglass
presided. They ate represented to hare bad
a very quiet and orderly Convention.”
ID* The Secretaries of the Colored Na
tional Convention, held at Cleveland, are
requeued to send, as noon as passible, a copy
of the proceedings of that Convention to this
office- Our readers an anxious to sue a
report.—r. 0.
OaaaiT Skits, Esq. will please accept our
thsnka for n donation of ten dollars in aid
of ths North Sts#.
Tst PiTTsartoH Catsoljc opposes the
present revolutionary movement in Ireland,
declaring its conviction of the otter impractic
ability of all aoeh attempts.
Scuools Ixduju.—The result of the
late vets m Indiana, 00 the Free School
question, t»—-to fifty-three counties, for Free
Schttk 37,413; sgsum them W.B3A
Whore are wo 1
Reader l Did you ever travel by railroad
ear, along any of the groat lime that humect
for hundreds of miles this vast continent
Of eonrse yon have, for who has not? Then,
when the train arrived at any halting place,
you have very naturally asked the question,
What place is this! Where are we I You
were anxious to know what progress had been
made—how far you were from the desired ter
mination of your journey. Life has been
called a railway train in which there is no
stoppage by the way.” It is an apt simile
bat wo may as we go, although there is no
halting place, ask ourselves the question—
Where are we and we may even suc
ceed in gathering up an answer, in some mea
sure satisfactory.
W here art me About thttty years ago,
Fulton requested the use of the Hall of Rep
teaeutativea, to deliver a lecture on steam
power, and its applicability to navigation.—
He was denied, on the ground that his scheme
was “visionary and impracticable.” Avery
few years rolled round, and hi# 44 visionary
and impracticable” scheme became one of the
greatest and must important facta of modern
history and tbe one thought that was work
ing in the brain of that one man, and which
he wished to communicate to the public in the
Hall of Representatives, baa, in the course ot
a very few years, effected more changes and
produced greater results, than all the fret and
fame of legislation and the thought and talk of
legislators, ever will—ever can produce.—
That is not saying much,” say some—“ for
it is not tbe intention of legislators to produce
great results—all that they want is to get of
fice for themselves, by shutting others out of
it.” Well, I will not dispute that point—per
haps it is; perhaps it is not; at all events,
did we take their word for it, we should come
to a very different conclusion for hear some
of them talk! their patriotism is bounded only
by the ocean— scarcely by that, if they can
contrive to annex” it, and their philanthro
py by space. That day, then, has gone by—
our legislators would not now refuse the use
of tbe Hall of Representatives for a lecture
on steam power, on tbe ground that the
scheme was visionary and impracticable.
Another discovery was made, as it were
only a few days since. Electricity has be
come the earlier of intelligence, and by its
means space may yet be almost annihilated.
The statement was made to a respectable far
mer, not many miles distant from where 1
now write, that a message could be sent from
Rochester to Albany in the course of two or
three minutes. He stoutly denied the possi
bility of any such thing. Anything in rea
son—but that’s impossible.” He was hard
to convince, but the evidence of his senses was
not to be disbelieved; and he went away
wondering 44 what the world was coming to.
It is a common remark now-a-days,that“th€
most intelligent men are the most credulous.”
This remark is, in some respects true but in
other and more important respects it is false.
The knowledge which intelligent men possess
and the estimate which they have formed in
their own minds oil the basis of that knowl
edge, of the distant probabilities of scientific
discovery,lead them at once to arrive at a con
clusion, and generally a correct one, of the
truth or falsehood of any alleged discovery.—
It is no sign of a philosophic inind to be in
credulous still less is that man deserving to
be considered intelligent who is for ever run
ning after the last discovery. Discoveries are
often made, which, after all, are no discover
ies—but either (he veriest humbug or the
offspring of an over heated brain. The vision
ary enthusiast wishes for something—prays
for it, in the truest sense of the word his
mind is full of it; and lo! there it is, the very
thing he wished! The dreams of the Millen
arians, the fanaticism of the Mormons—the
power of performing miracles of many name
less sects, are cases in point; many believed
in them, but they were not the philosophic
or intelligent. There would seein to be a
periodical return to a belief in miraculous
manifestations. There is nothing new un
der the sun.” After a certain period the old
fashion of a coat comes back again the old
tie of a cravat, and the old belief in the su
pernatural—Tho Salem absurdities, the witch
burning of Judge Matthews in the Midland
couuties of England, during tbe Common
wealth and the foaming at the mouth and
miraculous conception, and olbet wonder
working exhibitions of the Kentish monastery,
and so on, back as far as there is any history,
secui to indicate that it returns cornet-like, at
a distant period after having travelled a cer
tain orbit, changing its character, awl each
time losing a portion of its grossness, to suit
the more advanced civilization and intelligence
of the age. In the greater number of these
cases, the actors have been found to be either
grossly deluding or grossly deluded; and the
believers have for the most part been the ig
norant and superstitious. Nor can it be other
wise. Where there is no bast* to rest an ar
gument, tbe reaaooing mao cannot reason. If
be is shut «p to a simple belief or a denial of
what appears to him, from all his previous
conceptions of truth and falsehood, to be a
mere absurdity, of course he denies it. If
what is asserted, is contrary to all the known
laws of Nature’s operations, ai.d no proof ap
pears of any new mode, or of any discovery
of what is perhaps old, but hitherto unac
knowledged be will simply say, be knows
nothing about it. If n bears any resemblance
to what has before repeatedly been proved to
be a delusion, he will in all probability go
farther, and say, This is all a lie—l don’t be
lieve a word of il -ere long it will share the
fate ef its predecessors; aad will become aa
though it had never been to all buttbe viafon
arjr, the ereduloee, and the ignorant.
Some things are believed eves these days,
which are sufficiently incredible and aboard.—
Tbe following is an QHwtration quoted from
the London Daily News of May 13th, 1946:
Tn Bulls aho tub Kky.— Mary
Philips, a laundress residing at No. 3 Camden
Place, Kensington, appeared at the Police
Court, to answer a aunreoea charging bei
with having seed abusive language to Eliza
beth Haines. Efaaheth Haines deemed she
waa an faaer fa tha employ ef the defendant,
and while at wash fa defendant's fanes, she
(fas defendant) ;maned a sovereign, wired
aha Housed hat (eompfamant) ofhavmg talus,
hat she denied it, urhioh was the truth. Sami
days after, the defendant again accused her fa
the Bible aad the Key, of having at idea tfa
sovereign. The Judge asked the witaen
what fare meant far accusing her Vy the Bihh
«d the Key. Complainant readied, tha
when the defendant maned the aoveremn, am
she, (cemphtunnt) had domed knnufag are
til., H, ife (fcfaxUM to* j
Key up In a Bible, and held the handle of the
key which waa sticking out of the Bible, on
her finget, and when the defendant drooped it
at her feet, she fromedmtety reclaimed, My
God, Betsey, you have gut the roverejgn,
and you moat leave my heww directly. The
Judge further aahod whet waa the meaning
of such a trial by a Bible and a Key. The
complainant mid, she really could not my, aa
she bad never seen or heard of soeh a thing
before. When the defendant dropped the
Bible and Key on the floor, she mid toe Key
bad turned toward* her (complainant) aad had
pointed her out as the thief, and said she
would not have her in the home any lunger.
When the defendant saw her again m the
street, she called out to her, 'I know you have
got the sovereign,’ and spit at her, and told
her to keep it, saying ’May it do you no UL.’
This no doubt, waa a very short and conve
nient way of convicting a thief: but a* it wan
devoid of *ll reason, and had no foundation,
except in the credulity of a superstitious wo
man, no one paid any attention to it. It fa a
kind of revival of the old ordeal, under a dif
ferent appearance, but still trusting to s super
natural dccisioo, which of course was not giv
en. The falling of the key in a certain way
was, as almost evety one knows, tbe effect of
a fixed and unvarying law, and it would
have fallen just so, if there bad been no wo
man there for it to point at.
I read a more recent case of popular cre
dulity in a Bristol paper, which I cannot
find. It was to this effect:—A certain dines*
had been unusually prevalent somewhere in
that neighborhood. It attacked the cattle,
first, which waa no uousual occurrence. It
then attacked men and women, but more espe
cially children. This peculiarity in its attack*
led the ignorant to imagine that it was the ef
fect of the evil eye,”—that some persona
bad the power of bringing this disease on.
those upon whom they looked. These sus
pected persons were in consequence of this
belief, like to have suffered, and but for the
timely interference of the authorities would
have suffered the trial for w itchcraft—sink
and be drowned or swiin and be lynched.
These are sufficiently melancholy illustra
tions of superstition in the nineteenth century r
and show that not the intelligent, but the ig
norant are the most credulous. This and others
like it, are the modes by which those who do*
not relish the labor, and have little ability to
reasou to a conclusion, endeavor to arrive at
knowledge: it is tkeir royal road. Unfor
tunately, however, it leaves them just as ig
norant as they wete before they tried it.
But this is not all. An illustration suffi
ciently remarkable and worthy of note, can be
had at our own door, even in this city of Roch
ester. Were what lam about to relate, told
me of any place at a distance, I should not
believe it possible that any one of common
intelligence could be concerned in it; but
should at once conclude, that it was a mere
dream of the visionary, or a scheme of the de
signing and no doubt it will be so judged by
those who read it. Which it is, I have not
had sufficient evidence to determine. No*
doubt a very few days will be sufficient to de
cide the point. The case is this
Some time since, I do not know how
long, a man suddenly disappeared from a vil
lage called Hydesvillc. It was suspected that
he was murdered and to confirm this suspi
cion, certain mysterious rappings were heard
at his house. These rappings, as is quin?
probable, are said to have been accounted
for on natural cause*. Notwithstanding that,
they have since been heard at several house*
in this city. The manifestation,” or “spir
it,” as it is called, gave instruction* to dig at
the roots of a certain tree, and tbe bones of
the murdered man would be found. The
digging was done on the Ist, 2d, and 3d, of
August, in tbe presence of hundreds, and of
course the bones were not found, for they
were not there. The spirit now says, that
they did not dig deep enough Since then
the bones have been forgotten, and not only
the spirit of that man, but those of many oth-
ers have made themselves manifest. Every
one, indeed, may have a confab with just what
spirit he likes. Clarkson raps to Abolition
ists Gall, Spurzheiin, &c., to Phrenologists;
and those who are so minded bold long con
versations with their most intimate friends de
ceased. The mode of operation is this, and
to the unbelieving it appears a very round
about and clumsy contrivance, —Tbe peroott
wishing to converse asks the question—“ Who
are you?” There will be no answer to that
question—because the spirit cannot speak
The questioner then says, Are you my
grandmother?” Perhaps there will he no
answer to that; and he says again, 44 Are
you Spurzheiin?” and then there will be
quite# commotion among the boards. He
will then ask some question of Mr. Spunheim,
of course relating lo Phrenology and as tak
ing a question in such a way, and on such a
subject, always presupposes a knowledge of
the answer, 44 there needs no ghoet to toll us
•that.” It isaltogether a very singular affair,
but no leas strange than true. This spirit
rapping has also clairvoyance associated with
it, and by means of tbe two together, the moat
wonderful revelation*, if they are revelaiioos,
are mede.
These are the facto. Every one can rea
son for himself on the likelihood of n spirit
going to work in that way and whether ho
woo Id not have tho common—not to say spir
itual sense, to know that knocking, even if'
continued to all eternity, has no meaning ex
cept what those who bear choose to attach
to it. That there is a rapping there can be
no doubt, but bow it is caused is altogether
involved in mystery. Tbe whole matter how
evei, is not worthy of so much space aa haa
been given to it, except as an illustration of
our stage of progress, il i* an e» id core of
belief in the incredible, aad a superstitious
reverence for supernatural maaifretninav.
which we should aoeroeiy look fat at this late
day.
When ore wrf We here arrived al a
time of ebafcgw—a tone of rerefatfan—a tune
of pvogreaaioe. Mind fa everywhere aarort
ing its power ever matter; truth fa every
where claiming the victory over error. The
viola)ios of a moral, bo leas than of a physical
law, was sorer safe from the ccoocgumt pen
alty bet no m lean ae than ever; or rather,
meets feftaw seek other fa more rapid too
the penalty fa mere apparent-. The world
red fa
tnw. Whaler thejmnj^r 4
oontrary, Twfa^eetioo-^«^ W
1 and hear away the victory. War brings
I along with it its appropo* 1 <k
i narrow, and beggary*’"** 1 I
i thnyrereandtiminiyi***—* l^
wrong ef vfflany uf
viHante* that m<«t atrocious of all Atroeiuea*
oa and on Gods nghteoos judgment sweeps
to avenge that fearful wrkndiwn. The
chat* of the negro will, ere long, nolens there
he a quick and effectual repentance, be felt
tightening tightening around the neck of
the oppreaaor' This ia the history of the
past. How will the future read the bisto
rt of the present Signs aeotn to indicate
that there is Truth enough in this age to be
gin to do justly and lore mercy.—j. o.
Free Soil, w Louisiana. —A meeting of
those favorable to Free Soil principles, was
recently held at Lafayette, La., when a Van
Huron Club was formed with the following as
the basis of their Constitution
We whose names are hereunto subscrib
ed, do hereby form ourselves into a chib, j
under the name of the Van Buren Club, lor
the purpose of opposing the extension ol sla-|
very over that territory of the 1 States
not recognised as sovereign States that the
same may become the refuge and home of the
free whits laborer, wliosc only capital that he
has in agriculture is the labor of hi* hands.
We also advocate the gift ol said public do
main to actual settlers free of costi and that
we may not bring odium on this club,
hereby pledge ourselves to each other, that
we will not, by word oi act, sanction any pro- j
position of change in the relation that now i
exists in the State between the colored and
our own race.”
Pretty well for Louisiana, when we consi
der that thia resolution was passed almost
st the door of the would-be-President
slaveholder. Bnt why not go a little further!
when the truth was within reach, why not
grasp it! A truth in the territories is a truth
everywhere—a truth in Louisiana. Freedom
ia as valuable in one place as it is in another..
If the present system is wrong, what more
proper than to “sanction a change”—nay, j
even to labor that a change may he effected
—J. D.
The Chronicle, of Pittsburg, has come
out as a Free Soil paper, and supports an
Buren and Adams.
Free Soil in Missouri. —The Wochtn
bktit, a German democratic paper, published
in Hermann, has come out for the Free Soil
nominations, and abandoned Cass.
Virginia. —Free Soil in Shenandoah. —The
Free Soil Convention, which met at Wood
stock on the 20th of August, have adopted
Martin Van Buren as their candidate, and ap
pointed a committee to address the people of
Virginia.
The Norulyset (Northern Light) the
Norwegian paper published in Racine county,
Wis., has come out for Free Soil.
Free Soil in Wisconsin. A Mass
Meeting of the citizens of Fond-au-lac, Win
nebago, and Marquette counties, was held at
Ceresoo, Aug. 26, at which resolutions wer
passed in favor of the Buffalo platform and
the Free Soil candidates.
A F-mcfc Soil County Convention was held
at Pontiac*, Aug. 26, at which it was unani
mously
Resolved, By the Free Soil Citizens of
Oakland County, that we regard the exten
sion of negro slavery over the free territories
of the United States, as contrary to the de
sign of the Fathers of the Republic, as an
outrage upon humanity, and in direct viola
tion of every principle of justice. In our de
termined opposition to this scheme, we can
submit to no compromise ol‘conscience.
Resolved, That in our opinion, the ques
tion of free soil and free labor in the terri
tories, as against the extension of slavery in
these territories, vastly outweighs in import
ance all other issues involved in the present
•campaign.
Other resolutions were passed, denouncing
Taylor and Cass, and approving of the Buf
falo nominees.
Two Free Soil Meetings have been held at
Washington, D. C., and a constitution for the
Free Soil Democratic Association” adopt- 1
Vote taken on the cars going from Nia
garatio Buffalo, Wednesday Sept 6
Taylor 65
Van Buren 161
Cass 42
Rorh. Repuh.
ICT* At a Whig meeting held iu Spring
field, Mass., Mr. Ashmun declared that no
earthly consideration would induce him to
vote for (Jen. Taylor, if he thought he would
veto the Wilmot proviso.
Slavery in California.—The people of
California have declared against the introduc
tion of slavery into their territory they will
not permit slavery there, and it is said that
every slave taken there will be liberated as
promptly as he would be in Canada or New
England. The California Stai says, that
neither the soil, the climate, nor the produc
tions of California, are suited to date labor,
and that Congicss has no right to bequeath
such a calamity to the country, contrary to
the wishes of the people.
The Kentucky Slave Cask.—The Mays
ville Eagle has the following notice of the
slave trial progressing in Bracken county,
Kentucky:
The grand jury found a true hill against
seven of the slaves in Bracken county, foi
the late outrage committed there. One bill
for conspiiacy, insurrection and rebellion, and
one for shooting with intent to kill. Upon
the first, a jury was obtained on Tuesday,
and the trial is now progressing. Two ne
grw-s occupied nearly five hours in testifying
since which, half a dozen white men have
testified in relation to the resistance and firing
by the company of negroes, upon the whites
who attempted to take them up as runaway
•uvea.
Earthquake. —A shock of an earthquake
was very sensibly foil i„ New York on Fri
<Uy evening between ten and eleven o’clock.
A communication m the Journal of Commerce
says there were two shocks on Brooklyn
Height* at 45 minutes past ten o’clock.
B 7 A negro was lately condemned to be
hung for burglary, m Alexandria, Va It is
Mid there are not less than reren/y „ff„ nceB
which irgisu law punishes with death if
contained by a slave.
Ta« Statistics of the Southern Metho
dist Episcopal Church, just published, give
white members, 334,640, colored do. 127 £4O.
Mileage. —By the bill establishing a terri
torial government for Oregon, the mileage of
the delegate to the House of Representatives
is not to exceed $2,500 for going sod re
turning.
Metaphysics. No man can do anything
agaiest his will,” Mid a metaphysician.
Faith,” said Pst, I bad s brother who
wgHt to Botany Bay against bis will—faith
Letter Urea Howry Clwy,
The New York Espeam paHiahea the fol
io wing;
When Wc first heard of the intended so
called Clay movement ia thie <Hty, we ad
dressed a private fetter to Henry Clay,* not
expecting tn return any answer which we
could print; but we hare received an answer
in which wc are authomed to any as follows:
James Bsooes, Kan.—l have given, and
shall give, no countenance or encouragement
to snv movement to bring my name as a can-
didate for that office, (the Presidency) before
the public.
Oo one point I desire no secrecy, and that
m, that I am utteily opposed to the use of my
name aa a candidate for the Presidency.
Mr warm regard* tn your brother.
1 am truly yonr friend
Awl obedient Servant,
H. CLAY.”
Gen. Taylor for Slavery.
The following letter by an_ Alabama corre
spondent of a Boston paper, shows what are
supposed in that region, to be the views of'
Gen. Taylor on the subject of slavery.
Eutaw, Ala., Aug. 8, 1848.
The fact that some of the Whig papers in
Massachusetts, and in other State* of New
England, are insisting that Gen. Taylor is
op(MMsd to the extension of slavery in the
newly acquired territory, ia looked upon here
in the South as the lest joke that has occurred
since the presidential canvass opened.
There is no more doubt entertained here in
relation to the views and opinions of Gen.
Taylor on this subject, and wbat would be
hia course of action in relation thereto, than
there is that the Mississippi river empties
itself into the Gulf of Mexico.
If any persons in New England or else
where, are weak enough to be induced lo
suppose that General Taylor would desert his
.Southern friends and his own interest, in his
action on this subject, they may undeceive
themselves at once. We all know him to be
to the heart and soul with us on that all
important matter.
Very truly vours, &c.
ALBERT G. SAUNDERS.
The Charleston (S. C.) Meicury says,
there are men there who privately express
their convictions against the extension of
slavery, and that among these are even
some strong-minded slaveholders and native
Charlestonians.”
Mr. Webster. —The Boston Chronotypc
says that Mr. Webster is responsible for one
of the tallest intellects of this age but a
good sized moose would have resisted the en
croachments of the slave power as much as
he has done.”
Canandaigua, Sept. l‘Jth, 1848.
Messrs, Douglass Delany Gener
al Dix having been nominated for Governor
of the State of New York, by the Free Soil
party, a question of no small degree of inter
est, is presented for the consideration of the
colored voters of the State. Doubtless the
most of them look with favor upon the free
soil movement, and intend to aid its progress
by voting for the nominees of the Buffalo
Convention.
However anxious they may feel to do this,
I trust not one of them will vote for General
Dix for Governor. For however plausible or
conclusive their reasons may be for supporting
Martin Van Buren for President of the United
States, as the representative of the principles
embodied in the National platform erected at
Buffalo, they will not be held guiltless if they
vote for Gen. Dix for Governor of the Slate
of New York. Do you ask me why! 1 will
endeavor in my feeble manner, to inform you.
It is well known that Martin Van Buren, and
nine-tenths of the prominent men among the
Barnburners, voted against the extension of
the right of suffrage, and in all human proba
bility, would do so again. Indeed, not a few
of them have already declared that their sen
timents upon this subject are unchanged; and
that if they were called upon to vote upon the
same question to day, they would again vote
to fasten the chains of political thraldom upon
the limbs of our suffering countrymen. This
being the case, it is a question of vital impor
tance to colored men. Ist, whether they can
consistently vote for a res a to fill any office,
who, if he had it in hiv power, would deny
them the right to vote. 1 coufess I have been
much perplexed by this question, and am
still in doubt, iu regard to it. The only
ground upon which colored men can justify
themselves for voting for such a man to fill
any office, is, in regard the great national
question, and that he is to fill an office in
which he will not by virtue of such office,
be called upon to act, in any way whatever,
in regard to the extension of the right of suf
frage and furthermore, concurring with
them upon all the questions upon which be
can be called upon to act, by virtue of his of
fice, it is all that can be required of such s'
candidate. It is upon this ground I propose
to vote for Martin V.m Buren however pro
slavery his former acts may have been, but
few will deny that he now stands upon the
Buffalo platform. The only reasonable ob
jection, then, that can be urged against voting
for him is, that enough is not included in that
platform. Candor requites me to admit, that
many are of this opinion. Some are dissatis
fied because the Free Soil party did not de
clare in favor of universal suffrage. With
great dcfcienoe, I must differ from these gen
tlemen. The Buffalo platform is of a national
character—established as the basis of a great
national party —the object of which is to act
with reffercnce to gTcal national questions.—
A national question is ooe (in the sense in
which I make use of the term) upon which
Congress or other officers of the national gov
ernment may be called upon to act, by virtue
of their office. The suffrage question is not
one of this nature. No ooe holding office in
the national government, can be called upon
in consequence ol holding such office, to act
in regard to the right of suffrage iu the States.
The most superficial observer must see at
once, that the suffrage question instead of be
ing s national is only a local question, con
fined to those States in which it may origi
nate—and for the final settlement of which,
each an devery State alooe must be held re
sponsible, and not the nation at large. If thia
mode of reasoning bs serreet, what right haa
any one to complain because this question was
not included in the nalasoal platform, erected
at Buflhlo
The body that established that platform, was
of a national character—“assembled to consid
er upon national quasboM. The suffrage
question not being one of this nature, could
not be unladed to the platform erected by
that Convention. Having spoken w regard
42
[RorJi. Rejmh.
Communications.
to the Wiiffch fltofato. tofieavoml to
point out the relation w utiin to it, I mot
propose to confine my ittemko to Geo. Dix.
Whatever difference of epufeia may not
among the eobtred voters of the State of Hew
York, in regard to voting for Mania Van Ba
ted for President of these United Stolen, I mm
satisfied that, after a thorough investigation
of the whole h«t one opioioo annex
jst among them in regard to voting for Gen.
Dix, for Governor of the Stain of New York.
The only dark spot that now stains the oth
erwise prood escutcheon of the empire State,
is the invidious distinction made by its cooeti
totion, in regard to the exerc.aa of the elec
tive franchise. Ft* several year* we have
been laboring to have this foul blot removed
from the character of this great State. The
anti-republican character and the withering
effects of this proscriptive policy, have been
time and time again, presented to the people
of this State, hut all tg no purpooe. Actuated
by a spirit as mean as it is unjust, they have
recently re-adopted this odious policy.
How Gun. Dix voted upon this questioa,
we can better determine when we examine
his great speech, on tlie bill to establish terri
torial government for Oregon,delivered in the
United States Senate, no the 26th day of last
Jane, in which be embraced the opportunity
to express his hatred and contempt of colored
men, by making a mean nod unmanly attack
upon our. unfortunate race. So gTeat was his
anxiety to heap reproach open ns, that he
even descended to the ineffable meanness of
making statements that were palpably false,
and which he mast have known to be such
at the time. If he did not know- anything
about the subject, then be ought not to have
said anything about it. The General wel
comes to our shores the swarming millions of
the old world, (among whom are many pau
pers and felons,) and regards them as an ele
ment of strength to the body politic! And to
use his own language, if shades of variety
exist in their intellectual and physical charac
ter,” he attributes it to the influences which
diversities of soil, climate and government
have exerted upon them.”
Forgetting that similar causes produce simi
lar effects, lie can find no such apology for
us, but says, our race is an inferior caste at
the north, and counts nothing in the estimate
physical or intellectual, in the body politic.”
After staling what will probably (as he thinks)
be the result of the disabilities under which
we labar, he makes the cold-blooded and
heartless declaration, nor is it the work of
inhumanity or wrong it is the slow but cer
tain progress of nature, working out her ends
by laws so steady and yet so silent, that their
operations arc only seen in their results.”
The feeling which Gen. Dix evinces towards
us, proves that he has a heart as icy as the
snow-clad mountains of Greenland. Such a
sentiment is only worthy of the bloody demon
of oppression. Again, after complaining that
manumitted blacks come to our state, in spite
of any discouragements it may oppose, he
says, all such additions to our number are
in the highest degree undesirable. They add
nothing to our strength moral or physical.”
He finally winds up by saying, if the
50,000 free blacks were were removed from
the State, its strength and prosperity would
be proportionally .increased,” &c. These ex
tracts, taken from his speech, delivered on tire
26th of June, prove what his sentiments were
about two months since. There is no evi
dence before us to show that his views upon
this subject have undergone any change. The
presumption is, they have not. Can colored
men, then, assist in elevating him to the of
fice of governor of the State of New York,
in which office lie may be called upon to act
on the suffrage question, and upon other laws
that may affect us vitally! Every colored
man must answer with an emphatic No.
If it be the duty of colored men to with
hold their votes from Gen. Dix, for reasons
which I have assigned, is it not also the duty
of their professed friends, who are desirous of
improving their condition, morally, mentally,
and politically, to do the same! Have col
ored men, as members of the body politic,
any duties to perform, which are not equally
binding upon all other men! Certainly not.
If, then, it be the duty of colored men to
withhold their votes from Gen. Dix for Gov
ernor of the State of New York, (and no one
will deny that it is,) because he would not
only not extend to them their political rights,
but, by declaring that our presence in the
State is in the highest degree undesirable,”
and by intimating that it would be a blessing
to the State, if the 50,000 free blacks were
banished from it, shows, that if be had it in
his power, he would deprive us those
rights we already possess. If this be the
case, I ask, Is it not the duty of Abolitionists
(for I mean them,) our professed friends, to
refuse to vote for him for the same reason!
Let no man dare answer these questions in
the negative. These propositions are self
evident they need no arguments to sustain
them.
I call upon the editors of the North Star,
as faithful watchmen upon the wall, to sound
the tocsin of alarm, and thunder into the care
of the colored voters of the State, what will be
the fearful consequences of voting for Gen.
Dix.
Let Ward and Garnet, Smith and Cram
tnell, and all others, speak out, and endeavor
to save our countrymen from the everlasting
infamy of having voted for Gen. Dix, or any
other mao, tinder similar circumstances, for
governor of the State. Our friends may tell
asit was necessary for them to do so, for the
purpose of securing the triumph of the free
soil party but let us prove to them, and the
world if it can only triumph at the nxpeaer
of the degradation and crushed hopes of our
deeply wronged and injured countrymen, we
would rather see the Buffalo platform sink to
rise no more, into the deep, dark sea, where
toe waves of oklivioa can roll ever it forever.
In behalf of Freedom,
I remain y«wa,
H. W. JOHNSON.
Politics sad AWHti— to Okie.
The people of Ohio, partieulaxly the aorth
era part of it, mem to be gmag for Free Soil
with a perfect mall. During toe peat week,
1 we have seen hundreds of travellers from that
I state, and fully two-thuds of the* are for Van
Boren aad Adams.’'
The above exneet is tokee frees the “Pitto
borg Satorday Tisifor;” aad as psobahiy s
i current representation ef the state of political
fee hue w toe Weetere Reeerve. Aad if a
similar state of feeling existed ia toe South
ern portion ef toe state—end one ef toe warn
mm why it Am sot, ia probably hetaos» it»
*at m thoroughly ■fcntiriaawnl, ||g. Vn
Bmm aught fed poifctoly u> esse to regard
t» has pcsaprtt la the W»f* state. TVir
an» mm* Taylor and Casa mm atrereg us. j
jaat eucregb to make a variety, ami to keep
op a healthr agitauon ia the political atmos
phere. In the present campaign. there is to
fiule of the toicnse. feverish excitement
which characterised the campaigns of ’4O,
and ’44 but there m a portentous move
ment among the mamea, the result of patient
and mature deliberation, which m gradually
developing a Mate of political feeling, moat ar
dently to he desired. The people are think
ing for themselves; and consequently, politi
cal teachers have to he somewhat careful as
to the matorer in which they go in and come
out before them. They now speak by per
mission, instead of authority. The times
seem to be favorable for tb% development of.
liberal views; but 1 rejoins with fear and:
trembling, lest a transient and partial bright- 1
cuing of the political heavens, should piovc
to be the precursor qf an approaching season'
of moral gloom, deeper and blacker than that
which has rested upon us heretofore. Alas,
for the slave, if political usurps the place of
moral action Northers politicians, with a
few noble exceptions, are not yet sufficiently
disentangled from Southern influences to have
the principles of abolition committed an reser
vedly to their keeping.- Nevtordid the friends
of the slave need more wind obi and firmness
than at the present time and does it not be
come them to look well to Iheif ways, lest
they are caught in the meshes of crafty politi
cians, who would gladfy persuade them that
light is darkness, and darkness light f It can
not be disguised that there are many Disun.
ionists who long to be rid of the responsibili
ties involved in moral action, and to return to
the beggarly elements of political strife—even
as the Israelites longed for the flesh pots of
Egypt. The Buffalo Convention has opened
a way for them to approach the ballot box—
seemingly divested of some of the impedi
ments which surrounded it before. Some of
them will walk boldly forward, apparently un
conscious of there being any guilt involved in
the act; while others will hesitate and trem
ble as they draw near, not feeling persuaded
that it is lawful to do evil that good may come.
Let them go. They were probably never
half converted and can neither understand
nor appreciate the spirit of genuine abolition
ism. HARRIET N. TOUREY.
Parkman, 0., Sept. 12, ’4B.
Another Riot on the Cheshire Rail
road. —On Tuesday a second outbreak took
place on the Cheshire Railroad, five miles
from Keene, on the summit, between two
hundred Coikouians and Fardowners, who
were all armed with muskets. One man was
shot dead and several others were wounded.
A deadly hostility exists between these two
factions, and they are bound to fight whenever
they meet. One party endeavored to drive
the other from a section of the work, which
led to the fight. So desperate had the parties
become that the Keene stages did not pass
over their regular route for two days. The
Keene Light Infantry and the Westmoreland
Light Infantry wers eJled out, who took 53
of the rioners prisoners on Tuesday, and
lodged them in jail at Keene. On Wednes
day several others were arrested by the
sheriff, and committed to jail.— Transcript.
A llobte Youth.
A lad of Boston, the son of a widow, and
but sixteen years of age, recently left this city
for the Island of Cuba, to engage as clerk in
an extensive wholesale commercial establish
ment. Tl is establishment was represented
by gentlemen of this city, who professed to
be connected with it, as a large, respectable
and honorable concern. The boy was to have,
only one hundred dollars for the first year, the j
knowledge of the business, and the chance of
being connected with such a concern, being a'
sutheient recompense and inducement. The
second year he was to have a liberal salary.
The prospect was sufficient for the most
ample anticipations of the mother and son.
Hence the boy was taken from a flour store
in this city, where he served in the capacity
of clerk, and on the representations of the
gentlemen concerned, and the advice of friends,
he embarked for St. Jago de Cuba. His pas
sage out was paid by the gentlemen who held
out the inducement. When he arrived there,
what was his surprise to find, instead of a
large commercial establishment, the merest
grnggery. Not a commercial establishment
of any kind, hut simply a bar—a retail rum,
brandy, and gin establishment.
This is not what I came for,’ said the
boy. He refused to mix the first drop of
liquor. He immediately secreted himself
from the establishment, sought out the first
opportunity to make his way home, and
actually worked his (iassage before the mast
on board a vessel bound to Boston, where he
arrived not many days since. Ought not such
a boy to be encouraged Who wants one of
the sort in his employment Temp. Jour.
Selections.
COLORED NATIONAL CONVENTION
The following extracts from papers pub*
tubed in Cleveland, will aatisfy oar friends
abroad that some importance ia attached to
the efforts of colored men for aelf elevation,
even by our white fellow -citizens. To oat
mind a more hopeful aigo of progteas and
improvement has not appeared than this same
Colored National Convention. It was at
tended hy the rank and file, rather than by
the old acknowledged leaders of our people
and what was done was with hearty «good
will, and without any previous concert.
Convention of Colored People.
I —The National Convention of Colored
People met at tbe Court House yea
terday, and organised by appointing
Frederick Douglass, of Rochester, N.
Y., President. Several Committees
1 were appointed, and some speeches
made during the day.
The number of colored men present
was not large, but they were highly re
spectable in appearance, and mani
fested a high degree of talent. Mr.
Douglass presides with dignity and
ability. He is not only a distinguished
man but worthy of distinction, and a
gentleman.
The Court House was crowded with
I spectators who appeared deeply inter
ested in the proceedings, ana seemed
to sympathise with this band of men
just breaking from slavery, ignorance
and degradation, and taking position
among the free, intelligent and enlight
ened of the earth —-Cferc. Tntt Dan.
National Convention op Color
ed Freemen. —This Convention com
menced its sessions in this city on
Wednesday, the oth instant, and con
tinued its! labors during that and the
two following days.—Some sixty or
seventy delegates were in attendance
from various parts of the Northern
States; among others Henry Bibb and
Frederick Douglass, both of whom,
as all are aware, were formerly slaves
in the South.
Mr. Douglass was madetPresident
of the Convention, the duties of which
office he performed with an ability and
dignity that would have done honor to
more experienced men of the white
race. We had the pleasure of listening
to his remarks on the occasion of his
taking the Chair; and purer language,
nobler sentiments, and more glowing
eloquence wc never listened to. One
object of the Convention, as stated by
him, was to devise means by which the
colored race might become more ele
vated in life, have higher aims, and live
in such a manner as to command the
respect of their fellow-men, and gain
for themselves a bestowal of those rights
of which they are now so unjustly de
prived. Few inducements were held
out to colored men to become useful
mechanics and tradesmen—the white
man had nearly monopolized these avo
cations of life, or at least had made the
customs of society such that the black
man, with the same natural ability,
could not comnete with him.—“ But,”
said the orator, Temperance, Morali
ty, Christianity—these the white man
cannot monopolize. And in these, as
well as in the world of Labor, we can
and must show that we are equal to any
other race.” And the high moral tone
of the entire address, and the mass of
intellectual heads and faces before him,
and the resolutions adopted by the Con
vention, as well as the spirited discus
sions and close, logical reasoning which
they elicited, all gave ample testimony
that his words were true, and that they
came from the heart and reached the
hearts of those to whom they were ad
dressed.
For two or three successive evenings
large and enthusiastic meetings were
held at the Tabernacle church, w here
addresses were made by Bibb, Doug
lass, Delany, Lyle, and others, all giv
ing confirmation strong” that an op
portunity for the cultivation of their in
tellects and physical powers is all that
is necessary to make Afric’s sons our
equal brethren.
Viewing this Convention in its moral
aspect, we must say we rejoice that it
has been held. For we can see in it
the germ of that harvest which the
friends of humanity will one day reap
as the reward of their labors. It will
tell for good in its effects on the nomi
nally free colored people of our land,
inasmuch as it will raise their hopes of
standing on higher and better ground,
and incite them to make yet higher at
tainments in all that can add to their
characters as useful citizens and heart
felt Christians. Its proceedings, when
given to the world, will have a tenden
cy to break down much of that preju
dice which teaches that God has crea
ted the black man with an inferior in
tellect. And we are constrained to bail
it as one of the evidences of the good
time coming” when a Universal Broth
erhood shall be recognized throughout
the land, among all the inhabitants
thereof. For this we labor—for this
we pray. And may “Godspeed the
right!”— Temp. Artisan.
Free Soil principles arc popular in
New Orleans, especially among the
white population who earn their bread
by industrial pursuits, and who feci
most deeply the blighting stain which
slavery casts upon their position in so
ciety. It is estimated by a gentleman
recently from New Orleans, that the
greater part of the white population of
that city is of this class, and if polled
to-morrow, an overwhelming majority
of whites, he alleges, would vote iu
favor of abolishing slavery. They had
a free soil meeting in Lafayette, one of
the suburbs of New Orleans a few days
ago, which was well attended. The
Mayor of Lafayette, w'ho was present
at this meeting, thiukiog that the lan
guage of some of the orators was
seditious, issued a reclamation against
il! V°£ U ,us ,l u provision of the
Ulack Lode, forbidding speeches and
writings calculated to make certain
classes of their population dissatisfied.
Ihe r ice Sutlers, however, nothing
daunted by this proclamation, haftd ano
ther enthusiastic meeting the next eve
ning, confining themselves to the ques
tion of slavery in soil now free, and
steering clear of tbe provisions of the
Black Code
Do right, and fear nothing.
SCENE AT A PAWNBROKER’S
SALE.
Passing up Chatham street on Thun
day, we were attracted by the cry o
Going, going, going/’ at one t
i those establishments, and entering
found it filled with a motley assemblas
examining the mixed display of good*
wares and merchandise, arranged fa
nale. The auctioneer was, at the me
meat of our entrance, inviting bids fo
a quilted petticoat, which hadcvidentl
seen some service, and which wa
started at five cents, and after consid
crablc competitition, knocked down, t
a squalid-looking woman, for eightee
cents, who appeared from her acant
covering to require the article. Sh
walked up to the desk, paid the cash
I and received the article, apparent!
much satisfied with her bargain.
A cradle, a feather-bed, a watch,
bureau, a coat and vest, were succcs
sively disposed of, at prices whic
struck us to be far above their value
and it was amusing to witness the ea
gerness with which the competitor
sought to possess themselves of vari
ous objects of their competition. W
noticed among the group an interesting
J;irl, about seventeen years of age, i
aded yet deep mourning. There wa
an expression of anxious melanchol
upon her pale and beautiful counte
nanca^ which riveted our attention; sh
was not among those who were bid
diag, but was undoubtedly waiting un
til some article was offered which sh<
was desirous of possessing. At lengtl
the auctioneer offered a miniature anc
locket. The pale girl started, am
rushing towards the counter, exclaimei
in a voice of deep anguish:
“Oh! don’t, don’t, don’t sell them
for mercy’s sake, keep them a littli
longer; I shall be able to redeem them
I shall indeed.”
What is the bid for them?” contin
ucd the auctioneer.
“Do not bid!” almost shrieked tht
girl; “I had to pawn them to ge
bread for my little sister; it is in;
mother’s miniature, and my mother’
hair which that locket contains—m;
poor, dear mother, who gave it to rm
when she was dying. Oh! do not sel
it—pray don’t!”
It is impossible to describe the sen
sation produced by this appeal amon£
the assemblage. There was not a sol
itary bid for the articles; but we saw
an elderly gentleman, in the simplt
garb of a Quaker, go to the desk, am
in a few minutes afterwards we saw
that pale girl press her hand to hei
lips, and after eagerly kissing some
thing which he handed her, she rushet
from the room. This scene terminate!
the sale that day, for the audience sooi
began to disperse, the few that remain
cd evincing no disposition to possess
themselves of any of the unredeemet
pledges left remaining on hand.—Af. Y,
Sun.
TALLEYRAND AND ARNOLD.
There was a day when Talleyranc
arrived in Havre, hot foot from Paris
It was in the darkest hour of the Frencl
revolution. Pursued by the blood
hounds of the Reign of Terror, strippci
of every wreck of property, Talleyranc
secured a passage to America in a shij
about to sail. He was going, a beggai
and a wanderer, to a strange la. d, tc
earn his bread by daily labor.
Is there an American staying at
your house?” he asked the landlord o
his hotel. I am bound to cross the
water, and would like a letter to sorm
person of influence in the new world.’
The landlord hesitated a moment,and
then said,
“There is a gentleman up stairs
either from America or Britain, whe
ther an American or Englishman, I can
not tell.”
He pointed the way, and Talleyrand
—who in his life was Bishop, Prince,
and Prime Minister ascended the
stairs. A miserable supplicant, he
stood before the stranger’s door, and
entered.
Iu the far corner of a dimly-lighted
room, sat a gentleman of some 50 years,
with his arms folded and his head
bowed on his breast. From a window
directly opposite, a flood of light poured
over his forehead. His eyes, looking
from beneath his downcast brows,gazed
in Talleyrand’s face with a peculiar and
searching expression. His face was
striking in its outline; the mouth and
chin indicative of an iron will. His
form, vig trous, even with the snows of
fifty winters, was clad in a dark but
rich and distinguished costume.
Talleyrand advanced; stated that as
he was an American, he solicited his
kind and feeling offices. He poured
forth his history in eloquent French and
broken English.
“lam a wanderer—an exile. lam
forced to fly to the New World, with
out a friend or a home. You arc ao
American! Give me, I beseech you,
a letter of yours, so that I may be able
to earn my bread. lam willing to toil
in any manner the seines of Paris
have filled me with such horror, that a
life of labor would be a paradise to a
career of luxury in France. You will
give me a letter to one of your friends.
A gentleman like you has doubtless
tnany friends.”
The strange gentleman rose. With
a look that Talleyrand never forgot, be
retreated towards tlie door of the next
chamber, his head downcast, his eyes
looking from beneath his darkened brow.
He spoke as he retreated; his voice
was full of meaning.
1 am the only man born in the New
World who can hand to God
and say, I have not a friend m l one in
all America.”
Talleyrand never forgot the over
whelming sadness of that look which
accompanied these words.
“Who are you? M he cried, as the
strange man retreated towards the next
room. Your name?
My name”—with a smile that had
more of mocking than joy in Ha con
vulsive exprusuioo—“ u»y name b Ben
edict Arnold.”
He was gone; Talley rood unk in
•torir, the words—
Arnold the traitor!”
Best Preservative. When a
young man has love of reading, aod
of course a healthful rehab f«r intellec
tual pleasures, he has become poa
wsard nfnoc of the best preservatives
Against dissipation
DEAN SWIFT AND THE TAILOR.
A tailor in Dublin, near the residence
of the Dean, took it into the ninth
part” of his head that he was specially
and divinely inspired to interpret the
j prophecies, and especially the book ot
1 1 Revelations. Quitting the shop-board,
h® turned out a preacher, or rather a
‘(prophet, until his customers hfd left
his shop, and bis family were likely to
famish. His monomania was well
known to the Dean, who benevolently
watched for an opportunity to turn the
current of his thoughts. One night,
'.the tailor, as be fancied, got especial
revelation to go and convert Dean
Swift, and next morning took up his
line of march to the deanery. The
j Dean, whose study was furnished with
a glass door, saw the tailor approach.
1 and instantly surmised the nature ol
I his errand. Throwing himself into an
attitude of.solemnity and thoughtful-
II ness, with the Bible opened before him,
and his eyes fixed on the tenth chapter
of Revelation, he awaited his approach.
The door opened, and the tailor an
nounced in an unearthly voice—
I “Dean Swift, lam sent by the Ai
mighty to announce to you,”—
“Come in, my friend,” said the
Dean, “I am in great trouble, and no
doubt the Lord has sent you to help me
out of my difficulty.”
j This unexpected welcome inspired
the tailor, and strengthened his assur
ance in hiu own prophetic character,
and disposed him to liirten to the disclo
sure.
“My friend,” said the Dean, “I
have just been reading the 10th chapter
of Revelations, and am greatly distress
ed at a difficulty I have met with; and
you are the very man sent to help me
out. Here is an account of an angel
that came down from heaven, who was
so large that he placed one foot on the
earth and lifted up his hands to heaven,
j “Now my knowledge of mathematics,”
continued the Dean, has enabled me
to calculate exactly the size and form
of this angel; but 1 am in great difficul
ty, for I wish to ascertain how much
cloth it will take to make him a pair of
breeches; and as that is exactly in your
line of business, I have no doubt the
Lord has sent you to show me.”
This exposition came like an electric
shock to the poor tailor! He rushed
from the house, ran to the shop, and a
sudden revulsion of thought and feeling
came over him. Making breeches was
exactly in his lino of business. He re
turned to his occupation, thoroughly
cured of his prophetical revelation by
the wit of the Dean.
DETERMINATION.
A man carrdo anything that he is de
termined upon and goes at work rightly
to accomplish. The Alps will appear
little more than mole hills, when he hus
made up his mind to scale them. The
heavens will be as plain as a printed
sheet, when he has commenced reading
the stars. A fortune will be as easily
acquired as a few hundred dollars when
wealth is made the business of life.
Who can fathom the depth of deter
mination It is half omnipotent. Few'
men know their own strength—their
own capabilities. Hundreds might
I have been as brave as Napoleon—as
philosophical as Franklin—as wise as
Washington—as ingenious as Fulton
—as benovolent as Howard, if they
had known their own powers. But
fearing their own shadows, and turning
aside from the mole hills in their path,
they lingered in obscurity and died
without being either curses or blessings
to the world. Than to have been
scourges to mankind it was better, but
who can estimate the amount that might
have been accomplished by millions
who have passed off the stage without
leaving a single memento behind Let
it be yours, O man, to live for some
purpose—to achieve something for
those who follow after you—to leave
the world in better hands than you
found it. But determined not to die a
cipher or a drone—to expire like the
bursting of a soap bubble, being noth
ing for people to look at, admire and
take courage from. Than to pass away
thus, we should rather have an exist
ence among the heathen, or prefer that
our first breath should have been our
last. —Olive Branch.
Venice. —You must imagine a
strange and noiseless city, with silent
highways of water for countless boats,
instead of rattling thoroughfares for
cabs and carts, looking for ail the world
like rows of ruined Reform Club
houses built on the hanks of the Sur
pentine. Strange, black-looking craft,
like floating hearses, glide about the
streets, giving yon the idea that one
half of the population is burying the
other half; and every now and then you
come upon a view, which you appear
to be already well acquainted with, from
a perforated card, water-color drawing
in an album, or a print in an annual,
or some dining-room picture, associated
with an agreeable party, heat-frosted
clarct-jugs, and early asparagus.—[Al
bert Smith.
Every wooden leg which supplies the
loss of limbs lost in battle, is a slump
speech agaiust all war.
Debts or Honor. —lt is stated of
Charles James Fox, that when a trades
man called upon him with a bill, and
found money before him, he congratu
lated himself that he should be paid,
hut w as told by the gambliug statesman
that the whole was bespoken by debts
of honor. “Then,” said the trades
man, throwing his securities into the
fire, make mine a debt of honor.”
I thank you for your confidence,”
was Fox’s reply, and here is your
money.”
Dobbs says the only difference he
can discover between a general and a
captain, is, that one says come on,”
and the other “go on;” one gathers
cypress, and the other laurels. Tue
captains become candidates for the
o r Tc —the generals for the presidency.
Olau Milk. are coming into
general use in England, and are ad
vertised at 2s. each, when 12 inches
in diameter, and 6s. when 26 inches in
diameter.
SouTHxa* Caors. A gentleman
who recently passed through fourteen
counties of south-western Georgia, says
never saw such promising crops