I have not forgotten the promise that
I made you, before leaving America, lo
give you a letter occasionally for the
Liberator. V on have doubtless learn
ed t ie this, that the steamer m which 1
came over, made I he shortest passage
ever known. 'Phis, 1 need not inform
you. added much to the pleasure of the
voyage. Among the unusually large
number of passengers on hoard were
I'uur or five slaveholders, and among]
these was a Judge Chinn, a Louisiana
slaveholder, who had been appointed
by our Democratic government nsj
Consul to Naples, and who was on his
way out to occupy his post. The steam-1
er had scarcely left the shore, before it
was rumored that an American slave
was on board, and that he was going
out aw a delegate to the Peace Con
gress at Paris. The latter part of the
rumor gave additional interest to it, and
soon there was no little anxiety ni:*ni
lested on the part of passengers to know
soup thing o! the history of the ‘ugitive.
Mv Narrative,—a f**w copies of which
I iiad with me, was sought alter, and
extensively read, the reading of which
jiiodueed considerable sensation among
flu- passengers, especially the sluve
huldnig and pro-slavery portion of them.
I bis Judge Chinn had with him a free
colored man as servant, and 1 was
somewhat anxious to know what kind
u! protection be was to receive in trav
elling in this country, for you will rec
ollect that I made application to John
M (.'layton, before leaving America,
lor a passport, which was refused ine.
So, upou inquiring of tins servant, lie
showed ine his passpor’, which proved
to he nothing less than a regular pass
port from the hand of the Secretary of
State. True, it was not from Mr. Clay
ton, but it was from his immediate pre
decessor Mr. Buchanan. This proves
conclusively, that if a colored person
wishes the protection of the U. States
Government in going into any foreign
country, be must not think of going in
any other capacity than that of a boot
black Wherever the colored man
got-s. he must carry w ith him the badge
of-lavery to receive the protection of
the Americans. The act of govern
ment, m denying to its colored citizens
the same protection that it extends to
the w lutes, is more cowardly and mean,
it possible, than any act committed for
years But it is entirely in keeping
with American republicanism. I am
glu<i io see that the English press gen
erally, has denounced this act of high
handed injustice and oppression.
41 4* P
As you are aware, the Congress met
on Wednesday, the ‘23d, at I‘2 o’clock,
and, strange to say, among the first
tnut 1 saw on entering the hall, were
ihree slaveholders w ho caino over in the
-auie steamer with me, one ol whom
was Judge Chinn; but whether they
wt re members of the Cougress or uot,
I am unable to say. At any rate, they
w»-n- supplied with the same card ol
admission that members had. How
ever. they did not show any symptoms
of colorphobla so natural to the Amer
ican taste A circumstance occurred
;ti the close of the first session, which
Imws how easily Americans can lay
vMth their prejudices when they reach
'lns country. While I was in conver
sation with Richard Cobden, Esq.,
member of the Brgisli Parliament, and
ictor Hugo, the President of the Con
liicss. 1 observed a man standing near
Hi* whom I recognized as one of the
p*o»»engerH mi tin; same steamer wilh
me Iron* America, and who during the
k oya/e was not at all backward in ex-
K*"u„g his belief in the inferiority ol
’Niggers,’ a«d who would not deign
,<J to me during lb® whole pas
-3* At the close of the conversation,
Jtftl was leaving the parties with
THE NORTH STAR.
whom 1 had bc*>n talking, this man ad
vanced towards me with his bat in one
Hand and the olhor extended out, and
addressed me with, ‘How do you do,
Mr. Brown? I hope I find yau well,
sir.’ ‘Why, sir, you have the advan
tage of me—l do not know you.’ ‘Why,
sir,’said he, ‘don’t you know me? I
was a fellow passenger with you from
America. I wish you would introduce
me to Mr. Cobden.’ I felt so indignant
at the downright impudence of the fel
low, that I left him without making any
reply. The change from an American
to an European atmosphere makes a
wonderful change in the minds of Ame
ricans. The man who would not have
shaken hands with me in the city of
New Y ork or Boston, with a pair of
tongs ten feet long, comes to me iu thefl
metropolis of France, and claims that
we were
rica.’ M. de Tocqueville, Minister ot
Foreign Affairs, gave a splendid soiree
to the members of the Congress. I
perceived no difference vvhatevey in the
attention paid to those of a fairer com
plexion than that paid to me. I could
but contrast the feeling that pervaded
that assembly of men and women from
all parts of the globe, to the low, mean
and contemptible prejudice so common
in the United States. Here were rep
resentatives and Ministers Plenipoten
tiary from all governments, including
the United States. Messrs. Walsh and
Rush were there, and you know that
they are proverbial for their pro-slave
ry feeling. The whites and blacks
were all together, and i did not hear
the word ‘nigger’ once. If there was
any difference paid to one more than
Another, that difference was certainly
paid to myself, not on account of my
complexion, but on account of my iden
tity with the oppressed millions in Ame
rica. On being presented to Madame
de Tocqueville, I was received with the
same courtesy that characterized the
reception of others; but as soon as it
was mentioned to the distinguished la
dy that J was an American slave, all
conventionalities were laid aside by a
cordial shake of the hand, that gave me j
double assurance that 1 was not only
safe from the slave-hunter in Paris, but
that 1 was a welcome guest in the sa
loon of the French Minister of Foreign
Affairs. While there, I could but
think of Hie bitter cold night, in the
winter of 1840, when I xvas compelled
to w alk the deck of the steamer Swal
low ,>n the Hudson river, on account
of my complexion. I could hut think
of my being excluded from the saloon
of the steamer Huntress, on the pas
sage from Portland to Bath, in the Slate
of Maine, but a few days before I left
America, by w hich exclusion I was com
pelled to fast twelve bourn.
From the Concord Iml Democrat
SURVEY OF THE FIELD.
To the cause of human freedom in
America, the year that has passed lias
been a glorious year. To that small,
but faithful band of pioneers, who, a few
years since, ‘solitary aiid alone,’ cut
from the mountain that stone which has
become a great mountain, it is more
than the prestige of the good time com
ing.’ To them, toiling up through a
long night of persecution and threaten
ed death, it is a day of triumph such as
few deserve, and fewer live to enjoy a
triumph of w hich we eleventh hour sol
diers have no right to boast. We care
not that the patriarchs of the anti-sla
very movement may have been indis
creet and fanatical. We care not that
the world, and even the church, calls
them heretics. They have been truer
than the church upon the greatest ques
tion of the age. They have been true
w hen the church was false. They spoke
for them that could not speak for them
selves, when the church was dumb, and
sleeping in the arms of the most gigan
tic wrong that ever cursed the earth.—
We care not who differs from us; hut
we do honor and xve will honor the
men, be they Christians, heretics or in
fidels, who first sounded the bugle note
of war against American slavery Be
they honored or reproached by the pre
sent age, history, posterity, millions of
ransomed men and women, will do them
justice. Be their faults and indiscre
tions many or few, tlie day is coming
when they shall take rank among the
noblest and most disinterested benefac
tors of their race.
But the struggle w ith the slave pow
er in America is not vet over. Mnny
and heavy blows has the demon receiv
ed but he is not dead. The serpent is
scotched, but not killed. A fearful em
pire does he yet wield over the bodies
and souls of men. Terribly will he
straggle to recover the ground he has
I lost, and to subject again the govern
ment and the country to his infernal
power. Already we sec indications that
a more desperate battle than has yet
been fought is preparing. The minions
of slavery are strengthening themselves
1 on every side. Within two years, they
will again have one of the old political
parites of the country o|*euly enlisted
under their blood) Hag. W hich party,
it shall be, remains to be seen. Flags
of truce are now passing between (be
several camps. The slave power is
now making proposals to both parties.
The leaders of both parties are watch
ing the negotiations; and, meanwhile,
dare not utter a word above a whisper,
lest it may be against their future luge
lord, or in favor of their to be deadly
enemy. Thai one of these now con
tracting paHies will strike bands with
i ihe oppressor, there is little room to
i doubt. For that event it becomes all
true men to prepare.
True, the friends of freedom have
driven the former adherents ot slayer)
to abjure their hrat love. True, wo
have forced the eup of aoti-alayery to
ibe lips of oar endi|ie*. In their help-
LYjrt r
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX-TRUTH IS OF NO (X)LOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AXD ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
lessness aifiWiojiclessness, wc have
compelled twimi to drink. To save
themselves fidrtt utter destruction, they
have sworu4pw:riti('ul oaths of fidelity
to which they have
heretofore never ceased to war. But
let us not be deceived. Death-bed re
pentances are seldom lasting, and nev
er free from suspicion. It we are now
strong, it is because our vigilance, ac
tivity, and fidelity to principle have
made us strong. If we have repulsed
the advances of slavery, and compelled
its ‘natural allies' to sue for peace, it
has been by making them see that the
only other alternative was political
dJath.
The men who have done thus much
must not lay down their arms. They
'must cootinue to rely on ihe weapons
they have already proved.
they have «o bravely conquered, they
must stand by and defend. The ene
mies they have so lately subdued, they
must not 100 speedily invest with power
to betray. Let thorn first do battle,
during one campaign, against our foe.
If’ their faith is our faith, if theirs is a
sincere and honest conversion to the
principles of freedom, let them show
their faith by their works. Let them
at once cut off ail communication with
their former confederates. Until they
do this, we cannot give them our confi
dence. e must not trust ourselves
and our country in their hands.
EXTRACTS
r/ont the ’Report oj the Committee on Siaetry, to the
Massachuuftti Convention of Congregational Mm
liters.
SLAVERY AGGRESSIVE.
We h ave called the period of the
adoption of the Federal Constitution a
crisis in the history of slavery; because
at that time the slave-power, which has
since made such formidable usurpations
was a trembling petitioner for the li
cense to exist even at all.
A reference to the “Madison papers”
w ill show, that a continuance of the
slave-trade, till the year 1808, was con
ceded to the clamors of South Carolina
and Georgia; and we think it clear ev
en from such fragments as remain to
us of the debates of the Federal Con
vention, that a majority of the mem
bers of that body looked upon the ex
tinction of the slave-trade and slavery
as synonymous. And it was univer
sally supposed at that time, that the
number of slaves could only be kept
from diminishing by fresh impoitations.
For this reason the word Slave, was
carefully excluded from the Constitu
tion, that, when human bondage be
came a thing of the past, no trace ot
its existence, even, much less suspicion
of it* connivance, shrnrld leave its slain
upon that instrument. “I think it
wrong to admit in the Constitution the
idea that there can he property in man.”i
So said Mr. Madison in the Conven
tion, and in so saying, he echoed the,
sentiments of a large majority of the]
members from all sections of the coun- 1
try. Throughout the debates on the!
slavery clauses of the Constitution, it j
is very clear, that the advocates of sla
very actede ntirelv on the defensive. It
could not well be otherwise, since nl- 1
most every statesman, eminent in those
early days of the Republic, has left on
record his unqualified condemnation of
the system. Some of the heartiest de-i
nouncers of slavery were from Mary
land and Virginia.
Butin the thirty-three years which j
Lad elapsed between the adoption of,
ihe Federal Constitution, and the ad
mission of Missouri, the posture of af
fairs had entirely changed. Slavery'
now for the first time became aggres
sive, and the protection of liberty,
which was intended to he the rule of
our government, had grown to be the
rare exception. By the stopping of
the foreign slave-trade, and the stimu
lus which the domestic traffideceived
from the increase of territory, Mary-1
land and irginta had been seduced'
from their allegiance to higher and hu
mane sentiments, and had already be
come the Guinea Coast of America.
The admission of Missouri, by what
was falsely termed a compromise, lor
there can he no compromise with what
is absolutely wrong, no iruce bytween
God and Satan—threw at the pres
tige of victory and a control of balance
of power upon the side of the slave
holders. Since that tatal and perfid
ious day, f reedom has been constantly
driven to the wall. A small aristocra
cy, insignificant in point ol numbers,
and justly obnoxious to Christian free
men from the basis on w hich their claim
to superiority rests, scattered over a
wide extent of territory and only com
pact in a strenuous devotion to a com
mon interest, have swayed tne destinies
of this mighty nation, and shaped its
future, as far as possible, to a neces
sary coincidence with its mistaken and
repented past.
|>IM INGI’ISHING CHARACTERISTICS OF 1
AMERICA** SLAVERY.
In comparing American slavery with
the inode* of servitude which have ex
isted among other nations and in other
ages of the world, we find that, although
agreeing with some of them iu many
particulars, it differs in one important
point from them all Slavery, where
ever aud whenever it has elsewhere ex
isted, has been as impartial as death.
There was no one whom the chances
of fortune or war might not one day or
other reduce to bondage, But with
us, complexion has been made fhe cri
terion for determining the capacity of
a human being for freedom. It is a
singular fact, tkal, white the African pky
siogmimy and complexion art to
Unlit their unhappy pottemor far taking
cart pfhnntcy, and such'alto at to ren
der liberty a carte, yet the reward with
which Ihe American matter repay* any
ROCHESTER, N. Y.. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1849.
net of iMcutiur dtrotum or fidelity on the
part oj hut start, is emancipation!
Another distinguishing characteris
tic of American slavery is, that it is not
ou!y permitted, but actually fostered
by a nation foremost of all iu receiving,
publishing, and,’in many respects, ex
emplifying the great idea of human
brotheihood. It is congenerous with]
nothing in our political system, and isi
a constant reproach to our profession
of the religion of Christ.
holder of ancient tunes, if for
his title, appealed to what was then the
acknowledged law of nations, which
gave the captor poxver of life and deatli
over his captive. “All tlrnt a man;
hath will he give for his life,” and ac
cordingly a species of contract wassiip- 1
posed between master and slave, the j
slave rendering service an eq#va- i
lent tvrr Tite. ft is in vain to seek any)
such foundation for American slavery.
Here the slaveholder justifies himself,
either by the color of his victim, claim
ing to be only a fulliller of the prophe
cies and an instrument of God's ven-
geance; or he appeals to the fact, that
his inheritance of oppression was de
volved upon him from his ancestors;
thus endeavoring to defend the con f in-‘
nance of a xvrong, bv showing that it
is of ancient date, and to give injustice;
a title by prescription. Called upon tos
produce his original title, he is forced
to go back to the jus gentium of lawless,
savages on the coast of Africa, or is.
driven finally to seek refuge behind the.
right of the strongest; a light acciden
tal in its nature, and peculiar neither
to while nor black, but liable to change 1
hands, as it already has done in Hayti.
From tlie N. V Evangelist.
FOl R SIIOKT ARGUMENTS.
A great deal of argument lias been
expended on the question—is Slaverv
asinr Whoever will read carefully
the following contrasted passages from
the revealed Law of God, and from the
Statute books of the Slave States, must
find it hard to deny that American Sla
verv is opposed to the Bible, and there
fore is sinful, per se. Few people are
better than their law.
1. Bible Lair Search the Scrip
tures.”
.Slth'e Lair. Any man who shall
teach a slave to read or write, shall he
fined not less than 8*250, nor more than
$5OO.” —Laws of Alabama, Aiken’s
Digest, p. JOT.
2. Bible Lair. They twain shall be
one flesh.” “Honor thy father and thy
mother.”
Slave Lair. Any master may sep
arate, violently, the husband from the
wife, and the child from the parent, and
‘dispose of their persons by sale’ to any
purchaser he may select. Civil
Code of Louisiana, Act J’2.
J. Bible Lair. —“Be kindly affection
ate to one another. Love thy neighbor
as thyself.”.
Stare Lair. —“lt is lawful to fire up
on a fugitive slave who refuses to sur
render.”—Code of Louisiana, p. 108.
“The owner of any plantation on
which any slave comes, without leave
of his master, may inflict ten lashes for
such offence.”—Code of Mississippi, p.
371.
“Any free persons of color (except
seamen) who shall come into the State
shall be fined $lOO, and, on failure of
payment, shall be sold as a slave.”
Laws of Georgia, Act of December 19,
1848.
“For beating a slave with a horse
whip, coxvskin, or small whip, or put
ting irons on, and imprisoning a slave,
there shall be no penalty.”—See Bre
vard’s Digest of Laws ot South Caroli
na, p. 242.
4. Bible Law. God created man
in lus own image.” To Christian men it
is said—“Ye- are temples of the Holy
Ghost.”
Stare Lair. —“Slaves shall he deem
ed, taken, reputed, and adjudged by
law to he chatties personal in the hands
of their owners, to all intents and pur
poses whatsoever.”—Laws of S. C.,
vol. 2, p. 229.
We will not multiply illustrations.
These will suffice to establish the case-.
Robert Hall’s rule is a good one, that
in matters of casuistry the first answer
of conscience is the best—but we tancy
that some sophistry will be needhil t<»
evade the natural conclusion to which
these four short arguments will give
rise.
CALHOUN ON CALIFORNIA
C<jrro(j*Huk'iK'<' of il>t- Journal of t.oaninnT*.
Washington, Nov. 14.
1 understand that Mr. Calhoun wilL
resist the admission ot C alilornia as a.
state into the Union, with a restriction!
of Slavery as a part of its organic law.)
1 do not tbiuk he will obtain the vote ot j
all the Southern Senators iu the course
which he has marked out. He takes
the ground that aliforma has no right
to exclude slaves, aud thereby exclude*
slaveholders from her soil, the sover
eignty over which belonged to every'
cifizei, ot the United States, and mum
he exercised by their representatives in;
Congress. He contends that tbe peo
ple in California have no more right to
exclude slavery than Congress ban.
Jjler California aha 11 become a state,
then she may regulate her domestic
policy as she pleases; hut the South w
bound, according to Mr. Calhoun to
resist her admission as a atale,.and nar
assumption of the riglil. *n her present
position, to for* Government.
There i® no object*®* w h® tbi*w,
her forminf a pcovtsiooal Government,
for the security of her inhabitants; hot
she has no right to form a State Cyov
ernment without the assent of Congress,
or to enforce any law which may be in
consistent with the rig bio and interests
of tha ahiveholding portion of the Uo
kml These, it bettered, we
opinions not only of Mr. Calhoun,-but
of many Southern Senators, both Whig
and Democratic.
You w ill, ere long, if I am not mis
taken, see an assault lrom a combined
Southern force upon the present Ad
ministration, on account of an alleged
improper interference, by its order,
through its agepts. with the affairs of
i alifornia. To Riley, as l in
formed you, the Administration gave
such instructions as were calculated to
secure the early formation of a State
Government, and with a Constitution
prohibiting Slavery. This was, in my
opinion, a wise and patriotic measure
J on fhe part of the Administration, and
it was completely successful
1 But I am informed, and have good
reason to believe, that a portion of the
i **w«thern member* oi'Conirre.&s,andoth-«
Ijrar Southern politicians, intend to*bnngi
some railing accusations against the
I Administration, on account of what they
allege to be the extraordinary and im
warrantaple instructions to Gen. Riley, i
It is intended to allege that these in
structions exceed any power that be
longs to the Federal Executive in the
premises.
I have much more apprehension from
an agitation of this and kindred ques-j
tions in Congress at this session than
from any question relating to foreign)
nations that may arise in a century. I
fear that Mr. Calhoun is about to make
a final effort, under some fatal impulse,!
to throw a portion of the Southern States
out of the Union. Whether he will
succeed or not, this will probably bej
1 his last session here. I still trust that
Mr. Calhoun will lie deterred from pur
suing the course he has marked out for
himself, for it is quite certain that the
people of the South w »4 not sustain him
in it.
SOME FRUITS OF A PRO-SLAVERY
RELIGION.
A Washington correspondent of the
Cleveland True Democrat, describing
an interview withThos. C. McDonald,
Esq., U. S. Consul at St. Catharines,
for some months past, and bearer of
despatches from the American legation
at Rio de Janeiro to our Government
at’Washington, says:
‘Y\ r hat interested us most deeply was,
his description of the extent and horrors
of slavery and the slave trade on that
coast.
‘Not less than thirty or forty thou
sand are brought there annually, and
the mass of them in American vessels,
under the American flag, on the Afri
can coast, disguised elsewhere.
And what is worse —these vessels
arc /ned and controlled by Ameri
cans —citizens of jVew England!
‘AyrWlrtMvhat is rtlore than all— by
professing Christians oj' .Yew England!
Y es, I write it with shame and sorrow,
one vessel which he saw and named to
u's, was owned and controlled by the
Rev. Mr. Baptist minister in
the village of in Massachusetts.
‘Well, said Mr. McDonald, ‘slave
ry is a shame and disgrace to our na
tion. We are the derision of other na
tions—the English taunt us for it.’
Surely the great doctors of New En
gland Theology, who have been teach
ing for years that ‘slavery is no viola
tion of the Christian faith or Church,’)
and that ‘Christianity not only permits,
but sometimes requires its believers to;
become slaveholders,’ may*now con
gratulate themselves that their seed is
bringing forth fruit after its kind
How the tender and endnring human
love shown in the following incident,
related by Mr. McDonald, contrasts
with the trateful and hollow selfishness!
of those pretended ‘Christians’ and
‘Christian Ministers’ of New England:
‘One Sabbath, while a group of col
ored people were assembled in tront of
a church Cathobc) an old negro of
shabby- appearance, carrying a bundle,
approached and. made some inquiry.—
A middle-aged man rose to reply. Both
stood and gazed at each other, when j
the other exclaimed, 'Men Pia,' ‘Mea
PiaV and they fell in each other’s em
brace, then sprang up and leaped and
■shouted.' Then the younger kissed the
elder from his feet to his face, and
leaped, and rolled, and shouted, giving
every possible expression of joy*
Said Mr. D-, ‘I could not but weep,
and ask .myself— Has the negro no feel
ing in common with other men?’—Penn
sylvania Freeman.
From the Naiitinal Era.
THE SPEAKERSHIP OF THE
HOUSE.
The newspapers and the Washing
ton correspondents have commenced the
canvass for speaker of the new House.
The object is, to pre-occupy the ground
tin some favorite candidate, fore
stall the 1 claims of others. Some of tbe
writers speak at random, or from their’
own convictions; but in many cases the
press hi used simply as the agent of
Adroit political manager*, who stand
1 behind the curtain and work Ihe wires.
IF m generally assumed that Mr.
Wmthjrop will be tbe candidate of the 1
W higs. He is uot so acceptable to all
the Southern. YYbig members as a
Southerner 'would be, but*less obnox
ious than any other man Northern
Wbtgtf can' present. tVhile some of
his decisions on the last night of the
fart session of Congress displeased tbe
extreme pro-slmvery men, they will re
member hew much h: offended some
Northern members by bis construction
of the oounMlees on Territories and
the District of Columbia; and these
Northern men will this, con
sideration of his manly and impartial
hearing* as presiding officer. Mr.
Wiothrop then, as rebresenling the av
erage strength of ine elements that
elected General Taylor, will be the
candidate df ffic Taylor party
L*. r t4L4. .viiii v..' K* a
j The Democrats arc rather more per
plexed than the Whigs. They will
come together, after a defeat brought
about by a schism in their ranks on the
question of Slavery. They will not
know at first, how far to trust each oth
er, having no .Central Power to aid
I then* in adjusting their different views
and interests. But, judging from pres
ent indications, the slavcholding ele
ment will in the main determine their
policy. The majority of their party in
the House will consist of members from
the South and West. 'Already the
managers have laid all their plans on a
Southern Speaker. Wilmot Provision*
is to be eschewed. The candidate to be
not only from the South, but to be un
objectionable to the Calhoun Democra--
cy. It is curious to watch the process
8 kneading- fhe Northern*! U urtpragpn
into a shape to siill the ends orrllPm
managers. Letters have been passing 1
to and fro among all sections of the par
ty. The new members from the North,
elected by Democrats, or by Democrats
and Free Soilers, have been written to,
and their favor for a Southern candi-)
date for the Speakership has been in
voked, on the ground that the Northern
members can furnish no suitable man
for that position. Mr. Cobb is named
as an available man, and his refusal to
sign the Southern Address is referred!
to as an indicative of liberal views on
the Slavery question, which should
commend him to Northern suffrages— l
But if he will not answer, there is ex-
Governor McDowell, whose anti-slave
ry speeches during the agitation of the j
Slavery question in Y irginia, in 1831,
and whose strong opposition to all pro
jects looking to a dissolution of the U
nion, should certainly conciliate North
ern support. One or two Northern pa
pers mention Gov. Cleveland as a suit
able candidate, lint the letter-writers'
and the Democratic editors generally,
do not deign even to notice the intima
tion.
MOB 11 E COf TON FACTORY.
The corner sione of the Cotton Fac
tory to be erected in the vicinity of
this city, by a company of enterprising
Mobile capitalists, was laid on Thurs
day last, in presence of a numerous
i company of citizens, with appropriate
ceremonies. Underneath the stone
was deposited a copper box, contain
ing, among other things, (we have no
list) a copy of the character of compa
ny; charters, or constitutions of the
several .benevolent societies of our city,
of our railroad, Stc., a list of the offi
cers of the General, State and City
j Governments; a bottle of Scuppernong
i Wine manufactured in this city; a bnt-
I tie of wine from the native grape, mun
i ufactured by J. Magoffin, Esq., of St.
'Stephens;* copy of the Ho)y*Bible,
edition of 1849; copies of the several
city newspapers of that morning, Btc.,
1&c.,. The box having been deposited, I
previously to laving the stone, appro-;
I priate addresses were made by Sydney)
Smith and YY'n. J. Ledyard, Esq., in)
which the objects of the enterprise j
i were succinctly set forth, and the his-i
tory of its origin and progress briefly
i delineated.

Tbe company dispersed at about 2
i o’clock P. M., in good cheer, having,
spent, notwithstanding the inclemency
i of the weather, a most agreeable day— 1
i a day that is destined to form an epoch
in the history of our city— the day)
when was laid tlie corner stone of the
first Cotton Factory in Mobile
The “Mobile Manufactnrirg Compa
ny;” under whose auspices this enter
i prise has been commenced, is compo
sed exclusively of our citizens. The j
capital of the Company is one hundred
thousand dollars, and William J. Led
yard, Esq., is the President. The site
selected is in the midst of the pine lands
near Dog river, about five miles below
the city—as healthy a location as the
sun shines upon. Here, the Compa
ny has purchased thirty-five acres of
i land, which will furnish space enough l
for buildings for all the operatives. On
i the elevation, near the site of the Fac
jtorv, is a very neat and comfortable
house, (formerly occupied as the suin
mer residence of James Battle Esq.,
from whom the Company purchased;
which is intended for the residence of
the superinfendtmt. J
The buildings—tbe foundations on
j which are already laid—will make a
noble structure. The main building is
to tie 18) feet long, 54 wide, and three)
stories high; tbe boiler and engine
house, 71 feet long, 54 wide, and two
stories high —all to be made of the best
Monde brick, which are being vnanu-
I factured in the vicinity, by Major Gar
land Goode. The builders are Messrs. 1
Barnes, Kirkbridge and Kilts of this
|city.
All the machinery has been contract
-1 ed for at the“Mattewan Works,” near
j Newburgh, N. It is calculated for
5000 spindles and 180 looms, to he pro
i pelted by two engine* of filly horse
power each. The goods manufactured i
will be principally tour-quarter cotton
fabrics, though a portion of the ma
chinery will be allotted to three-quar
ter osnaburgs, stripes, ice.
*l*he establishment, in all its parts,
we are sa is fled, will be of the mo*t
perfect character, and it is in Ihe hands
of men who have the means, the ener
gy and the public spirit to ea try it
through to an early completion. The
advantage* to Mobile (which we can
not now dwell upon) will 1>« incalcula
ble; and that when fairly under way,
it will yield a rich harvest of profit to
(foe stockholders, we do not entertain a
shadow of doubt. That they may reap
that reward whtch is justly due to the
pioneers of a great enterprise calcula
ted, in an eminent degreee, to promote
the public good, w our most earnest
demra. We congratulate our citizen*
JOHN DICK, PISLISHKS.
WHOLE NO. 101.
on the encouraging prospects before
us. On every side we see evidences
of an awakened public spirit, of a rev
olution in the public mind, the fruits of
which will not long be withheld. Man
ufactures and internal improvements
are becoming the order of the day, and
a brighter morn is beginning to dawn
upon Mobile. Mobile Advertiser.
Fn»n» tbr N. Y. Triiwae.
OSAtJES IN WASHINGTON.
Washington, Nov. 10 1549.
Last night live of the principal chiefs
of the Osage tribe of Indians arrived
in this city with a view of holding a
“talk” with their Great Father. This
morning, accompanied by their inter
preters. they first called upon M..
JArow-n, Hie Commissioner of Indian
IfH'airs, and thence proceeded to the
Secretary of the Interior, who together
went to the White House. There
w ere a number of persons present, and
the interview was attended with a great
deal of interest and much satisfaction
to all concerned. I was astonished at
the ease exhibited by the President,
and the tact displayed by him in his re
ply to the addresses of the head Chief.
Viler this part of the ceremony was
over, the principal Chief presented the
President with several small paintings
executed by the young people of his
tribe as evidence of their improvement
in Education and advancement in Civ
ilization, and also with u beautiful bead
purse, w hich was sent to the President
by one of the Indian girls, which was
the work of her own hands. They had
not been paid their annuity, which un
explained, had caused some little un
easiness among them.
This, however, was at once removed,
upon being informed that the absence
c»f their new agent, Wm. H. Bell, Esq.,
arose entirely from indisposition, which
had prevented his making his appear
ance among them. After spending
nearly an hour in friendly intercourse
with the President they withdrew, ex
pressing unbounded gratification at
their reception.
These red men of the forest were
perfectly captivated with the appear
ance and manners of Mr. Ewing, Sec
retary of the Interior, which they fre
quently manifested by ejaculations in
their native language. His free and
easy manner with them, and the solici
tude he manifested for their welfare and
comfort while among us, as well as the
prosperity of their tribe, evidently won
their admiration, and excited the grati
tude they expressed. Ido not know
when I have witnessed a more interest
ing interview than the one I have but
feebly described.
RAILROAD TRAVELING.
Who can estimate the comfort, ad
vantage, enjoyment of this mode of
conveyance. What an incalculable
amount of animal suffering is to be sav
ed by it to the world! No matter what
the state of the weather—though the
mercury stand at ten degrees below or
one hundred above zero—though the
rain descend in torrents, or the snow
hide the face of the earth—though the
wind rage tempestuously, or not a leaf
is stirred by the breeze; no matter
what the condition of the road, either
in highways or byways; no matter
what tiie distance to be traveled, wheth
er ten or ten hundred miles; seated in
an elegant and spacious car, as agree
able as any parlor or saloon, and pro
pelled on level hands of iron by a pow
er that never tires, and with a speed ah
rnost equal to the Hight of birds, the
traveler performs his journey without
suffering or fatigue. At times, the illu
sion is so complete, that it seems as if
he alone stands still, and everything
else in in motion. Gardens and fields,
groves and forests, hills and valleys,
towns and villages hurry past him with
magical effect, until he finds himself at
the end of his journey, it may be hun
dreds of miles from home, by an agen
cy and a process never dreamed of by
the uncounted generations of men tinea
the birth of the world till within the
present century. No marvel that ev
ery thmg is in agitation, and every
body in process oftransportation. And
this swift locomotion of the race it only
“the beginning of the end.” What
shall it be a thousand or ten thousand
years hence? A voyage around the
world will not cease to be a rare event,
but it will be undertaken with as much
ivmrhaluiwt as one goes from Boston to
Liver|>ool.
The earth is more trusty than ocean
or river, because it is not to easily
shaken. An earthquake is a phenome
non; hut the “ruffian billows” aie
readily excited to a mobocratio tumult
by any sudden gale. A railroad acci
dent is usually no child’s play, it is true
it is not “neck or nothing,” for it is in
variably something, and sometimes
quite appalling in its consequences; yet
the chances of safety on land are much
better than on water. Nothing has yet
occurred on any of our railroads »o
fraught with horror as the remembrance
of the fate of the Islington or the At
lantic, on the sound, or many a similar
disaster on the western rivers.
Garrimnt
Rioim or th* SotiM. A fnid
Convention has been called at Nash
ville, on the first Mooday of June next,
to devise ways and means for resisting
the aggressions of the North on the
right of the South! This is to be a
great Southern Convention. The North
has held Conventions to devise means
fur resisting the aggressions of the
South on the rights of the North, and a
“turn about is fair play.” All we have
to say ia, stir it up, and see what will
become of it. There will be no harm
in agitation—the right will triumph the
more speedily,—Nonpereil
A Southerner’s View of Gold Digging
The New Orleans Bulletin publishes the
following extract of a letter, which the Rich
mond Enquirer attributes 10 Dr. W J. Brent
of New Orleans
San Francisco. Sept. Ist, 1*49
I have just returned from a trip to the gold
tegion, and as the steamer start* within the
hour. I haveonlv time to scratch a few lines
to you Yon would like to hear somethin;;
authentic and true about the gold. Well, I
will teil you what I think, and ntv opinion i*
formed from actual obeeivatioo. The whole
country, tor a space of five or six hundred
miles m more, is tilled with gold, take up a
spadr lull of earth any where in ihe gold re
gion. ami vou will find more or lew* of the
metal in it. Although it exists in such abun
dance, it is not to be obtained without great
lilkk and loss of health. Laboring men who
can stand the climate and work throughout
the da\. can average from ten to sixteen dol-
Uts a day—to do this they have to wotk as
hard as any negiu on a cotton or sugar plan
tation. Kxposed ,u> the burning son, that no
thermometer has ever been made long enough
to matk its heat, had and unwholesome fond,
and sleeping upon the ground at night, un
sheltered from the dew you can see at once
that disease is no stranger to persons thus ex
posed. and death is not of rare occurrence.—
I'here are but three classes ot individuals that
can ever work these mine*, the Negro, Indian
and Irish There is no mistake about the
gold, and the newspaper stones you have
seen ate not much magnified, yet to obtain it,
lequires labor, and is attended with the utmost
peril to health and life.
l in. Lauokinc- o"»L**fcs.—.V move is ma
king in New Yock to ameliorate the condi
tion ot the laboring classes. Several large
capitalists are at the head of it. A large
ira>-i of land is to be bought some fifteen miies
from New York to build a new city upon.
I'wo inti lions of dollars to be the capital.
Ihe company are to build $30,000 worth ot
brick houses at $3OO each, including the lot
30 by 200. These houses are to he let ai
ss* each to mechanics, or one dollar a week,
which will pay 10 per cent on the capital.
All the houses to Ire uniform each occupant
to h3ie the right to purchase Ins house, by
paying $2 a week and keeping up the inter
est of 7 per cent, in this way, he gets a ti
ile io Ins homestead in about six years. A
negocialion is going on with the Hudson Riv
er Railroad, that the occupants of these hou
ses shall have the privilege to commute with
the Railroad Company, for their passage to
New Vork ami hack again, at a price not to
exceed six cents a day, going and coming;
the distance each way w ill not bn far from 15
miles, at three cents a head. In this wav
they can leach the city in half an hour. If
10,ou(» laborers reside there, it would give
the company $OOO a day, or $187,060a year
i or. Detroit Fire Press.
The Journeymen Tailor’s Clothing
Bi«'ke, No. 89 Ann Sr., Boston.— Messrs.
Kditors Your readers are aware that this
-tore is alieady in existence, and of the very
important and Christian principle on winch
the associated journeymen work. The gar
ments they turn out, for beauty, finish, and
cheapness will compare, according to all ac
counts, with any, and judging from my own
experience, are superior to any. 1 have an
outer garment made by them, which lor
beauty, finish, and cost, will compare with
my tiling of ils kind. Let any one who
desires to patronize a worthy set of men strug
pling for principle and their oppressed luetic
mi, now ground down by an unjust system,
yo, and while helping this association, bene
fit themselves, ihe- works of these associa
ted tailors indeed praise them.— Cm .of Essu
h i tii/uin.
f _________
Arr ki ting Incidenr.— A friend tells us
that, a tew Sabbath mornings ago, Mary, a
poor colored woman, came to beg him to
write a “proclamation" lor her. She said
that hei only staler had been biought here
thiee yeais ago by a trader from Alexandria,
\a and sold. She herself was brought out
lasi yeai, but her inquiries of her sister had
b«en lruit)es» »he had at last prayed to Hod,
an I it was impressed on her mind that she
would hear ot her at chinch. Our friend
wrote tfie name of the lost sister, where she
wax from and who the had belonged to. The
paper was handed to the minister, and after
sermon he read it to his congregation, (of
blacks,) and desired any one knowing such a
sei vant to stand up. A woman rose in hei
place —a shout of |oy w z as heard—and in a
moment the two sister* w ere in each others
aims. The worthy minister returned thanks,
and spectators evinced their sympathy by a
spontaneous contribution. The poor women
had lived nearly two years on the same
•quart', mourning each other as lost, without
having met. They came rejoicing to thank
our tnend, who savs that he never slept so
sweetly as he did that night. And poor Marv
manifests her gratitude by bringing him for
bitakiast, every Sunday morning,piping hot,
an old-fashioned Virginia hoe-cake such as no
t rench pooh in Baiie or in New Oilcans can
“■*ke. Last evening he received a i ash-coke
bandaged with collard leaves, a mysterv a of
the irginia evisine. enough to rouse t’lie
gho*i of Apicius.— N. O. Delta.
■No Black Laws in Illinois. —The new
constitution ol Illinois, adopted in 1847, has
rhe lolhtu mg article
I he General Assembly shall, at its hrst
session under the amended constitution, pass
micli laws as will effectually prohibit free per
sons ol color emigrating to and settling in this
'Male, and to effectually prevent the "owners
ot slaves from bringing Ihem into this Simp
tor the purpose of setting them free."
In due tune the General Assembly held its
fust session—discussed the subject—many
ti lt ashamed of the provision—some said it i*-
quired an impossibility, as they could nut pass
•my Iju which would rffectualhj" prohibit
tree p-c-ons of color from coming into the
ai. and so tin* first session closed, and no
ia.v was passed on the subject.— lndependent.
irur Giur.—Frederick Douglass, in one
ot his lecturing excursions, went to Honcoye
f all, Ontario Co., N\ Y. Finding that im
appointment had been made tor him, he was
compelled cither to leave the place without a
h. .ii ii, oi to seel; a house and proclaim the
notice himself 1 lie time was short—the
Min was nt-aily dow'u, and what he could do
iuum be done quickly.—He lirst applied for
the Methodist church, but alter much prevari
cation u was refused. He then obtained the i
lil a baM room at the hold, and liavjno
borrowed a large dinner bell, went out with
i into the street, and proclaimed ins own
meciino 1 He Urns obtained a good audience
who listened attentively to Ins message. This
i« what we call genuine anli slavery r.t
ffu pm -lateiy party may as well ‘knock un
jet once, tor th»v cannot conquer a spirit
jilt tins .4nt* Huglt
New On i»vi, Nov ti>-
ixRKISLE ft l aaMSOa l F iWoSlu A
itinble steamboat explosion occulted here
i r t .emne
Int steamer Louisiana, bound to ftt Cons,
wiitn about tuning liotn her whall, huist
both her boileta, shattiring her to atom* and
alts, badly injuring the ateatustr* Storm and
Boiuma, that were lying alongside
I lit latuiiiin* su cruwdsil with passed
t ti- as wete also the other two which had
ju*i arrived.
Ir it supposed that, altogether, 1* 0 h»es
wait lost, betid* many wounded
A treads fiitv <lcad bodies have been rccov
«ied
Tbs J*tvee ,s atrewii with liie .lead jtlid I
aod hundreds ol out eili/ens .me j
round ihe rneiitie-liwly scene, ronderuig all
r.t assittauce in then puwvi to ihe.**- tn
oboin a Spark of file remains
Dr ad bodies. leg*. »rm*. ami haadk. are
scattered »n every direction, ami the ctpbt
prewoitd meet* it re at prteoot m»-
p.vMihle to ascertain the names of *ho*e wlm
are lost. As soon as they can be collected, i
will forward vou another despatch
apt am Kennon, of the steamer Louisiana,
hia he* n artcMed ami held to bail in the sum
ol $2,000. The explosion having been at
tributed to <*areles*ne««, a searching investi
gation will shortly take place The number
of killed, it is believ'd, wilt teach 200. be
sides many dread fully wounded. 'lhe flip’s
ot the shipping ar.- all at hall-mam
An Ist, and ceueo to the I ft.— Mr
Sqmer the L’. ft. Charge to the Central
American Republics, ha* negotiated a neats
with Hondo ra« by winch that Island is ceded
1 1 to the I niteJ fttates, as will l»e »een hy ins
circular, issued to the diplomatic agents of
other Nltions in this country
Legation or tut Km rur States, i
In Central America, j
lison de Nicaragua, ftppt 28, 1849. J
Sir 1 have the honor to inform vou that
j the Island of Tigro, in the Golf of Fonseca,
has bean ceded to the Fruled fttates of North
,i America, by tin Republic of Honduras, for
I the time pending constitutional action upon
an existing convention between the two re-
1 publics, and that, accotdinglv, speedy posses
sion will be taken of the same,' upon behalf
of the Fnittd States.
The existing port and other regulations of
j i the island will he continued until otherwise
altered.
I hav« also the honor to add. that the
United Slates has acquired interests in the
western islands and coasts of Honduras,
I I which vs ill not permit her to look with indif
ference upon anv measure which shall efiect
the present order ol things in that quarter.
lam, sir, with high consideration, your
i oii’t an*-I* I hi i IKK
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, NOVEMBER 30, 1849.
I
Letter from the F.ditor.
NO 11.
alley Fall', Nov. Oltli 1819.
1 must give voii anotlier letter instead ot an
editorial arucle. Duly seem* to rei|uire my
absence from home four or five weeks longer;
my indulgent readers must, therefore, contin
ue to cultivati that admirable vutue which
the holy apostle declared, worketh experi
ence. All win* really dcoire the North .Star
to be sustained, will bear inv absence with in
dulgent patience, since the pajw’r can be sus
tained only by giving n a good subscription
list, and this can be done only bv presenting
its claims to the public, and soliciting subscri
bers to it. I am not altogether unreconciled
to this necessity. 'Hie paper is in good hands
during inv absVnct*. Mr. l)ick has already
shown himself to be fuiiv equal to the task ot
making a readable and useful paper. To his
admirable taste and discriminating judgment
in selecting matter fot its coluuin.s, the North
Siai' has boon lot main months indebted
and the fact that the contributions from bis
pen, have been ficquentlv copied into other
i papers with approval, proves him to he a
j workman that needeth not to he ashamed.
With the valuable service of Mr l).ek at
i Rochester, and uh.it I can do for it while
traveling ami lectuiing. tire, paper will not
cease lo he inteie-tmg and iiawful to its read
|er«.
Since the annual meeting ot the Rhode Is
land Anti Sluvety S.icu-u lit Id in Prov .deuce,
1 I have visited and held meeting;* m fhepa
!diet, Richmond. lv (Ireenwirh. These meet
inn® were not veiy well att. tided I have al

so, hi companv u nit inv 'cetltcd lin-nd and
co-worker 1' L. Kemond, attended meetings
in New Bedford, l ull Rive,. Pawtucket, and
alley Falls. Tin--e have all beet pood
l meetings, and have no doubt been ot ..ome
‘service to the cause o| the lave. The meet
mgs in New Redbud, wen- held on Sunday
afternoon ami evening, and wen* especially
j interesting and giatilyiug. Friend Kemond
made in tin' evening one ol Ins best speeches,
,and was listened to with llnf very liest alien
lion.
A visit to New Bedford ot itself a treat
to me. Besides the pleasure ot meeting there
many dear anti-slavery eoadiulors in the glo
rious cause ol Ireeduiu, and being warmed and
cheered on in the righteous work ol liber
ty —most of llie readers ol the Ntilth Star
will reineuibci that that city was the lirst to
offer in tlm wnter, sheltei Irom the cold au
tumii il sloim®. aftci his escape from the house
j of bondage that it was there I hrst felt
at liberty to pa‘u*e (dr rest in inv rapid
(light from the fetter, tin.' wliip and chain.
1 never visit New Bedford w ithout having the
I who!.* circumstance ol my happy escape
himiglit vividlv before me. I well remember
the intense anxiety, the licpidaliun and alarm
i with which I walked up and down its streets
jin jiuisiiit ol emplovinciit. looking behind
i me at every lew paces, appiehending tjie ap
proach ol some two-iegged bloodhound on
my track, l or more tliau six months was i
haunted by such tears. I’ho leelmg. howev
!cr, gradually died a vay, and I liecame toler
|abl\ contented and satisfied with my saeltv
It was in New Bedford that I earned the firs
dollar that 1 could call mv own. It w.»> there
that 1 commenced the career <d a man and a
|citizen. It is the birthplace o| three -ut my
dear dub!ren. It wa» on the wharves of
I New Bedtord in the capacity ol a common la
borer, that the Anti Slavery cause found me,
i ami summoned me forth 10 defend the lights
j and to some extent vindicate the dignity of
j niy oppressed and plundered people, in no
{town more than to New Bedtoid, have I had
the sympathy an support ot my eoloted breth
ren they have stood by me, and clir°red and
strengthened me in mv dibits. On the pres
ent v isji they showed the same interest in the
cause ot Ireedom and elevation, which they
have manifested tor ihe iast eleven yeats.
\n .uveslig.tiion into the chaiarter amlroii
duct ot the colored people ot New lirdloid
would be sufficient io ietuie ail ttie ‘Under
1 ind cobweb sopt.t9trv «*l mir enemies No
mat. or, iu„|c upon that population and see
it 1 order. neatness, industry and honesty,
Without u kiiuW ledgitik' it ,t libeilv i« the true
elr-mem i ui th,. til il k as wr-li a* for the w hile
nun 1 tie colored g«ople ol that place, are
mosilv lium i|i> southern Stale*, amt a major
ilv ot itieiu tiave worn the yoke ol boriJaga,
die gallmg <-hain of •Uwtrv 1 tsev came to
Bcdtoid p. ol Iriendies*. without money,
education nr recommendation—they <;une in
face i bitter prejudice of it,, community, and
to Ikui up under a donate 100 ro d for soutlt
fcni constitution', -ni.-t ij to ttie i tr,ct&e ot
1 1 cedom—stranger# to the lights and duties
jot ciliaen*, yet, unJur lues*- and man, mhei
disadvantages. I .entuie lo adum without ito
sbphte-l l.'al ol foul! idif lion, that p, ~p|«
(freer Irom none, more upuqhi m then <i« >1
tugs, no or tbdual.mua u< then habile and
{more neat in vheir poisons, than are t|a color
e<i people of New Bedford, cannot be foead
among tbe working daaees of uj town or
city in il*e American Union. I contemplate
the colored people of that place with virteoes
ptide, and point the slaveholders at tbe Sooth
and their allies at tbe North, to that people as
an emphatic denial and a lulling refetatioo of
all their malignant slanders. Some of tbe
most successful w halemen out of tbe port of
N**n Bedford are colored men- There are
among them, not only good sailors, (men wbe
command the highest wages) bat good navi
gators, capable of takiog a skip safely to any
quarter of tbe globe. There are ef these in-
I Industrious and eoterplising men, not fewer
than forty now in California. They bate
I nhown themselves as keenly alive to tbo at
tractions of gold as their white fellow-dtiaens.
1 am glad of this proof of s common origin—
a common identity. While in New* Bedford
1 had the pleasure of perusing several letters
fiom a number of old and intimate colored
friends now in the gold region. Those let-j
lers gave me a far more fsvorahfl impression
as to (he probable success of the gold hunter
than any letters which I have seen floating
about m the newspapers.' It is quite evident
from these interesting letters, that the wealth
1 of (’alifoima is, as it ought to be, shared by
colored as well as white men. Not one of
the company of colored persons from New
Bedford expresses any regret at going to
California, and ail seem delighted with the
prospect before them.
hoi once I/iWi has found a place wham it
I bids lair to be amply rewarded. The soft
j handed thinker is there, no match for the
hard fisted worker. The black man can dig
gold as well as the white man. Why won’t
the ('ulouization Society send some of its vie*
lims to California instead of sending them all
to Liberia l If it would do the former, and
I leave nit the latter, it would be far more like
ly to convince the colored people of its disin
t tercsted desire to benefit their condition, than
any efforts now making are likely to do. But
here 1 must close as in a few minutes it will
1 be too late to reach in time lor the paper.
1 —F. 0.
a
California—Another Compromise.
The very unexpected intelligence received
a loitnight ago from California, that the Con
vention assembled at Monterey, had agreed
upon a Constitution, by which Slavery and
involuntary servitude, flicept for dime,
should be for ever excluded from the state of
California, lias been on all hands looked upon
with distrust. It was thought too good news
to be true The more one leflects upon the
circumstances in which that form of constitu
tion was agreed to, the more suspicious does
the case appear. Ist. The section of the
constitution excluding slavery was agreed to
at once unanimously and without discussion,
i bis’, to say the least, was very singular.
The Convention was composed of forty-eight
members—twenty-five from the Southern
States—some of them known slaveholders,
ami twenty three from the Northern States,
all ot whom, it cannot be supposed, were very
fine 1 nends of freedom. 2nd. The opinion
ol the Smth with respect to slavery in Cal
ifornia, has not been kept secret. Reverdy
Johnson, we conceive, expressed it when he
?aid. that “the climate and soil are well adap
ted in slaveiy,” and that it must and would
»<i tn aiilornia. At all political meetings
in the Southern -States, the right—not only
the unfit, but tbe determination ot slavehol
dels in can v tlo ir property to California has
for the last twelve months been one of the
mo i productive topics of declamation.—
MJ. Slaves have lieen carried into California,
under the impression that they would he as
sate to their owners there, as in any of the
slave Stales and they are there now, and
doubtless slaves still. Lastly. The place
i where tbe Convention was held—namely
Monterey is fai distant troin the centre of pop
n)ai tun, and peculiarly accessible to govern
ment officials, patronage and influence. How
under all these circumstances so peculiarly
encouraging to opposition, the anti-tlavety
section refeired to, could he allowed to pass
without discussion and unanimously remains
a mystery.
Still further, the doings of the Administra
tion, icspecting California, with scarcely an
attempt at dissimulation, have all pointed to
a different icault. The head of the Admin
istration is currently reported (and there has
been nothing in his course before ot aince hia
election to the Presidential chair, which a£
fords any contradiction to the report) when
at the beginning of March laat, a Bill tot the
establishment of a government in California ,tn
which there was no provision against slavery,
was before the House, to have uaed his in
fluence hi favor ot the measure. The nu
melons officers and agents sent by the gov
ernment iu California, have been without a
known exception, if not strongly biased in fa
vor ot slavery. at heat, negative on the sub
ject, and of course ready to fall in with any
scheme however iniquitous, which was
thought to have the sanction of their princi
pals at home. But especially by the appoint
ment ef Mi. King, of Georgia, a double-dyed
slaveholder and au unblushing advocate of
slavery, to what was named a mioeralogtcal
survey, but what seems now to have been a
secret political mission, has the Administra
tion given evidence of its intentions on the
subject of slavery in California.
Have the intentions of government been
fiu strafed’ If slavery, by the action of the
-i .'onvenijon, is forever excluded from Caltfor
nia, they undoubtedly have. Dm that such
will nut be the case, is now abundantly appa
tent. The slaveiy members of the Conven
tion probably knew ibis, and therefore did net
manifest any anxiety on the subject.
But the late news from California requires
confirmation It is possible that the action of
the Committee may be tsverged by the final
action ot the t onveqtioc it is also possible
that California, with us present boundary, will
be admitted into the Union, as a free Stale.
We ;»v this »s possible, but we are not saa
gui/ie enough to think that tl is likely. Sla
veiy baa never yet tailed, cither,by open or
cancelled measures, to get all that it has ask
i ed and it will not tail now What it cas
ual accomplish by chicanery sad conning it
will accomplish by bravado and bluster
Cilflfcun and hu company <4 Soothers Demo
unts are now in the field, threatening dime
iierinem and all that if they are exclodad
from 'aJiiwriua. W ith that Harlequin ver
i sauitty u hk h is always chacaeaeostic at the
accomplished puktimnn, they have sees fit to
j change their optmoe upon Stale law. Their
position is not now the cemparauvelT modes
me that etch State must decide for it*d
whether or not it will admit slavery but ths
the people of California, and of course of eve
ry othea Territory of the Uehed States. hav<
oe more rifht to exclude slavery than Con
gross has; and that not until California ha
become a State, has she any right to regular
her domestic policy. Immediately on lb
heels of this Southern manifesto, appear pat
agraphs in tap official papers, from the ash
iegton letter writers, proposing a Compru
mice. It is discovered that California, will
its praaant boundary, is too large for on
Stale; that it must be divided into three, au<
that a Bill will be inttoduced into the Senate
which will provide first, for the esiablishmen
of four territorial governments, to wit Ist
that for New Mexico; 2d, that for Deseret
3d, that of California, north of 36 deg. 3
min., and weal of Deseret, and 4th, the pat
of California south of 36 deg. 30 min.
“It will also ptovide that the territory uotll
of 36 deg. 30 min. shall be authorized forth
with io form a State Constitution, and sha
be admitted Also, that a ne\
State shall bejßWhe same lime, admitte
from the eastern part of Texas, aud south r
36 deg. 30 min. The bill will not settle th
boundary between Texas and New Mexicc
bat will provide that the question be submit
tad to a board of commissioners.” This pr
ject, it is said, will be supported by leading
men of both parlies, and is beginniug to tin
favor at Washington.”
Peihaps these flying tumors are all lal*
Possibly they are nothing more than the usu:
gossip with which W ashing ton correspondent
amuse their readers but in the circumstance
they carry only a too sorrowful air of prob.i
bility. M^pnwhile the papers are full of thi
rumored compromise; and what is rather re
markable, the Whigs are unusually busy gi\
ing currency to the explosions of Souther
bluster, and in magnifying their importance
and the danger likely to accrue, if the demand
of the South are resisted coupled alway
with the expression of a hope that no cans
will supervene to endanger the harmony o
the Union.
The fears and suspicions expressed above
may be unfounded We fervently pray tha
they may be; but in judging of the acts n
slaveholders, and calculating the probability
of slavery extension, experience has showi
that it is impossible to be ovei cautious am
fearful. Compromise is the American hobby
The chance in favor of a whole measure
where a compromise can be effected, is a ver
small one. The excuse for ibis new compto
mise, if one should be made, will be the dan
ger of dismemberment We are sorry to bi
compelled to confess that we do not imagim
this danger to be nearly so great as mam
doughface Northerners would have it believ
ed. Fbr our part, we should be happy to bi
delivered from the burden, curse, and innder
able shame of every slave State in the Union
The Not them States would Jose noth
ing, and gain much by such a result, ttu
this [will not be. The South, with all he
bluster, knows well, how weak she would b<
without the strong arm of the North to suj)
pert her in wickedness and oppression. Comi
what will—compromise or no compromise—
union or dissolution, we are still for fteedoii
for the slave —for justice for all.—j. o.
A Dark Transaction.— A correspondeu
of one of our exchanges puts the follow in'
case:—
‘‘We have been in a quandary here übnu
a recent dark transaction, which occurrei
thus Major Jones of Virginia, ow ns a blacl
hone, spirited and fine. He also owns seve
tal colored individuals, ‘fat and sleek.’ Om
day Cuff, a colored chattel, mounted the blacl
hone, and put for Pennsylvania. He was
arrested, and taken back on the charge o
stealing the horse and abdvctmg himself. No
long after, Ralph, anoiher ebony chattel, wa:
riding said horse to pasture, when the hit!
gave way, 3nd the said four-legged chattel
supposing he was going through the sam<
exercise that be was whipped through a few
days before, put straight for said Abo/itior
stable in Pennsylvania.—Query Is not th<
Horse chattel io this case clearly liable for ab
ducting the man chattel, ami can Major Jones
even under the laws of Virginia, plant an ac
tion against either
We do not know what the law of Vug mu
may be and a does not matter a great deal
for the/sode of a slave State cannot reasonably
be expected to be either very just or very wise
But speaking rationally on the subject, w<
should suppose that whether the properly ii
biped or quadruped, make? an particular dif
fereoce. If the horse ought not to be punish
ed for running away with the man, neithei
ought the man to be punished for running
away with the horse. There is, or uught t<
be, as much ground for supposing design n
tlie one case as in the other. It there war
intelligent design on the part of the man, thee
the case is clear that he was sinned againsi
by being transformed into unintelligent prop
erty and the mere circumstance of his taking
whst is his own, is no offence against eithei
law or equity. But what are we doing'—
Reduced to the necessity of proving that man
is not property Shame' shame' America 1
and yet your constant topic is the equality nl
man For the sake of consistency, do, we
beseech you, cease from the one, or abjure the
other!—j. o.
ColoretioßiA in tux Chlslu. —The bil
lowing illustration of Christianity as practi
cally illustrated in this country, we take fiorn
the Chronotype. Out upon ihe hypocrites
Outwardly, they are devout and holy—‘‘whi
ted sepulchres inwardly, full of ail unclean
neas and wickedness The command of the
New Testament, a? read by these “Mstho
<hau,” would seem to be not “Love,” but
hate, injure, and ir.soh 'one another”! If
anything ever naggers our oelief io Christian
ity, it Will be the practical infidelity of Chris
tians But the paragraph tells as own story
Cavaca F allow smp—A colored mao
well known to thn city as an honest man and
thnsuan, l naan of good drees and address,
wee invited, on the afternoon of Sunday be
we last, to attend meeting to the church in
***®®T*t etreet, lately purchased, and now
worshipped, or worshipped in, by the Metho-
He accepted the lovitatioo, and when
tfce beib rang, wended bis way with the mul
where he supposed “the poor have
the gospel preached unto them.' After wait
ing some tune w the eouy ot the cbqnph for
friend to come, the sexton waited upon
hua to his own new in ths gsllery. the
stranger had hardly set down when a voice in
the neat pew was heard to my, “Whst is
that nigger here for The sexton beard the
t*eelt. hut being an anti-slavery man, passed
fifthy mouthed hypocritical worshipper
wMh silent contempt, and in a few inomeou
tntnnmd with hie own faimlj, and seated
I the® in the nne pew with the colored gc»
f tlt inat)
Shun I v after, a tuaa who bile* a** l
the mx tun'a pew, and which, by the way
was mt taken up, came in ar<i before taking
r hie own wat, had the audacity to order tb«
colored man oat of the tej ton's pcwjjgffig
s inquiring Who put the nigger in UmLI
He was told that a pew boldei pot ine mat
therr. He then said, “i will not bate bid
there,” and at the sam« time, opening ih«
door, ordeted him out.” The colored man
accompanied by ih* family of tlie
the pew and the church. These facte sTI
enough for the prcw>ni.
i
J The “North Otar,'' a rabid anti-Slfter;
paper, published at Rochester, N Vt^fcMSt
to us marked "please txchfingt.' Mr
I Frederick Douglas*, ihe editor, and Johi
Dick, tlu?publisher of said paper, ygj£assur<
ua that they are not tuggers,” “JLJL'U lc
cepi tlieir proposal.
The Batesviile (Aik Eagle, a dippy
1 shabby looking, Imie tout and a halt aquart
concern, filled up almost wholly with adver
1 tisements, has tl»i*» notice of us. ery won
J detful, is it not, that such a great Eagle shoulf
make so condescending an offer 1 On sight o
k the paper, we do confess to having had saint
misgivings about our proposal, aud a sligh
inclination to back out. On further reflection
however, upon the honor done ns by the Fa
gle (no leva than that of making us the sub
jecl ol one of its longest editorials) we re9olv
ed to make the best of our bargain. \V<
|j might have got over even this difficulty bu
there w|g still another obstacle, which w<
etiuld bv no means overcome. Irwastht
j thought that the Eagle might consider u
mean. It is not pleasant to be thought meai
s by any one least of all, is it pleasant to b
S thought mean by men of such true nobiltt'
and manliness as the citizens of Arkansas
9 They arc all lionorable men They would a
soon think of flying to the moon, as of takm<
any mean advantage of any one' Were oni
to charge them with stealing from a poor de
spised black man, they would treat him witl
9 well merited contempt, if not with a coat o
9 tar and feathers' Were one to charge then
with stealing the black man himself, and evei
women and children, he might think himsel
fortunate if lie escaped hanging on the highes
tree. How very dreadful it would be, to b<
1 considered mean, by even one such honorabli
man We dared not run the risk As t<
5 the proviso mentioned by the Eagle, we an
1 fully aware of its impoi lance We shouli
have imagined, however, that uhenthpedi
tot was on the subject of provisoes, he might
with gieal propriety, have added one or tvvi
more He might, for example, have require*
an assurance from us, previous to granting th<
great fawn of an exchange with his Lillipu
tian sheet, that we were over six feet high
that we were not marked with the small pox
that we were long, lank, lean, hungry-look
ing; that we were red-haired, that we had
hawk-nose that we wrote with a gold pen
that we did not cease to smoke, chew, am
spit continually that we could handle a cat
o-nine tails; that—that, in short, we were
1 man exactly after the heait of the Batesvilh
Eagle made to order, without a soeck of ani
but real Saxon or Norman blood in our veins
All these conditions the editor of the Eagl
might have required. They are all, to ou
thinking, quite as germane to the case of ou
1 ability to make a good newspaper, as the very
important proviso mentioned. Wemn«?t tak«
a little time to arrange our answer. \V<
it
should be very aoiry indeed to make any mi»
take A blunder here would rum us forever
Fortunately there is no necessity lor haste.—
I Rome was not built in a day. 'We will in
form the editor of the Fag/e by and bye, if hi
will confess his inability to find out for him
self. Meanwhile, we will try to keep ou
j faces as white as we conveniently can an<
r if the editor of the Eagle should still suspec
us of being somewhat too dark, we may re
mind him that (lie blackness ot his heart, be
mp as he is to the extent of his mean ability
the vile pandei tor and supporter of the rnfa
toons system of .-lavery, will bring him a
j least to *a level with the darkness of our color
So there vvr ieaye the matter, (to quote th<
j veiy elegant and classic Latin of the Eagle
j in another equally able editorial immediately
I following the one we have given above,) ir
"statu e <juo —j. j).
Lectures at Corinthian Hall.
i he Athena-um Association have announe
ed a series ot lecture to he delivered in the
course of this y\inter, by a number of the
most eminent literary and scientific men o
the country The hrst was delivered or
Monday of last v*%k, by Hon. Horace Mann
,i of Massachusetts, the able successor of Johr
Quincy Adams, in Congress This lecturt
was earnest, eloquent, and interesting-; arm
we judge cannot fail in have been suggestive
of much serious and usetul reflection, on the
part of those who listened. The lecturer at
tacked ihe prevalent vices of the age, and
especially tho*e most prominent in this count
ry, with an unsparing hand. He was justly
sever** upon gluttony, drunkenuess, and
vicious indulgence showing that only whils
tri obedience to the laws of Nature, which are
the laws ol God, can man attain to any high
1 deg:**e ol intelligence, vutiie, or happiness
Ihe lecture by (inn Casa, on Thursday
evening, wa- a different sort of affair It
was full of the growth and greatness ot
America, and her institutions doubtless ill
very true, but not on that account any the
less flattering to Jonathan's vanity, which
Heaven knows needs no flattery. There was
also a very frequent reference to Leonidas,
Aristides, Theimopylar, Are,—reminding us
altogether too forcibly of the essay ot a school
boy who has just read his second Latin book
at school The lecturer s name drew a very
j litge and taabknablc crowd, who appeared
interred and mstructed We do not know
I whit was the General a subject, or whether
he bi J any particular subject. Besides
Amencs, Leonidas, and Tbemopyhr, be
talked at considerable length cf the Egyptian
pyramids, and the wonders of ancient art
Were it not presumptuous in us to character
ize the effort of such a man as Geo Case,
who has long bees before, and is well known
to the world, we should call it—Nothing in
particular, hut s rehash of many things. Will
our friends the Hunks® forgive us for speak*
tog thus plainly about their idol 1 Oh dear
i. o.
Mob* Annexaiio<i —El Sight XIX s
founts! published is the city of Mexico, u
advocating the annexation of the Mexicai
Republic to the United States.
ColorphoUi Ike EtUrtil aai o«
the Rlm.-Kewirkible lutaace ia
tke Itevr Yark Mad Atyhaaa.
An English lad; sad her sister, who are
now in ibis coontry and bare moral courage
aVI strength of character amply sufficient to
enable them to encounter and to reaisi
the all-prevailing sins of American colorpho
Ibis and prejudice, give the following graphic
account of their recent experiences
New Yoax, Nov. 26th 1549
We left Rochester, as you know, about a
week since, with a little colored boy about
five years of age, and took the cars to Alba
ny. We were amused on the way in watch
ing the countenances of our fellow travelers,
how their brows knitted with astonishment
when then eyes fell on the happy face of the
child, and they made the discovery that hia
skin was dark. Reproach and scorn were
next depicted on those unhappy, haggard,
anxious faces, and they looked at us with
an expression that said “Who on earth are
you*” One person daring the day, having
more Christian charity than his neighbors,
thinking that we did not look quite out of out
minds, suggested the query, “was the little
boy lor sale*” The boy was happily uncon
scious of his color being anything to be mar
vclef) at, and looked all his enemies in the
face with the puie trust and confidence ol
childhood. We reached Albanv in due time,
and the steamboat “Oregon’* was awaiting
the train. We started down the Hudson riv
er about 1-2 past 8 o'clock, and the general
Saloon becamtTTl once the scene of excite
ment. There were two white ladies and a
little colored child in company Of course
the lad could not join'us at the suppet table
we weie not disposed to fight the battle on
this occasion, so we went down without him
we had the privilege of sendingour little friend
some supper, and he (we suppose on accounl
of his tender age) had the privilege of eating
it in the saloon. “Where have they picked
him up*” w -s the question whispered by all.
\Ye, however, were much fatigued with out
long day's journey and soon put an end to the
scene by retiring to our sleeping apartment.
We have met, since our arrival in this city,
with an instance of colorphobla in a quartei
where we least expected it. We accompa
nied a friend to visit the Asylum for the blind,
and there wc most certainly encountered
blindness of a two-fold nature. A death had
occurred in the establishment on the day wt
visited it, and we were consequently informed
that we could not then go over the Institution,
but feeling tired with our walk, we seated
ourselves in the pailor, where there were six
or eight young ladies, inmates of the Institu
tion at work. We were introduced as fneods
from England, and chatted with these blind
ladies during our stay. We asked several
questions about the establishment, its rules
and regulations who were numbered among
its distinguished visitors* The names el
Henry Clay and Lewis Cass were mentioned.
Just as we were preparing to leave, one ol
our party asked, “Are blind colored chil
dren admitted here Some say that the eyes
are the seat of expression, but could you have
beheld the malevolence and animosity eviden
ced in those sightless faces, on this question
being put, you would not be of that opinion.
“We never used to have colored people/’
was the rejoinder, “now we have five or six
but ihey are not allowed to board in this es
tablishment, and we never associate with
them, they are kept by themselves, and are
taught .separately.” Then followed, on the
part uf these young ladies, a simultaneous
hurst of indignation against the colored peo
ple in general, suppressed murmurs that they
had ever been brought from Africa, the trou
ble they cause in this country, and vehement
declarations that they would never sit at ta
ble with colored people and on no account
would they consentjto marry one of them. One
of out party endeavored to impress upon the
minds of these doubly blind ladies the extreme
folly and sin of their present cruel prejudice
against their colored brethren aud sisters, and
we trust that our visit to the Blind Asylum
has not altogether been in vain.
Calvin Fairbanks la Baftelo.
Buffalo, Nov. 20, 1840.
I FaentiucK Douglass: Okas Sir: it
may be a pleasure to you tu learn that we
have been favored with a visit from that
tried and faithful friend of the slave, Calvin
Faiibank's, who in 1844 was sentenced to fif-
I teen years imprisonment in the State of
Kentucky, for aiding in the escape of Lewis
Hayden aud family, from the Prison House
of Bondage.
Mr. Fairbanka through the clemency of
Goy. Crittenden, was pardoned and teleased
froiy his lonesome dungeon on the twenty
third day of August 1849, and ia now on
his way to wait his l’nends and relatives. He
anived in out city on Thursday last, and notice
being immediately given, a public meeting
wan held in the evening, which was largely
attended aud an unusual degree of interest
manifested. On Friday evening a meeting
was also held, and the house crowded with
anxious listeners, at which time Mr. F. gave
i a history of his impusonmeni and, the causes
which led thereto. f
On Salfbaib evening a meelinJ’ was held
in Clintun Hall, (the largest Halt in the
city,) at which not much leas than one thou
sand persons present of both white aud colored
Thus we have had very profitable and ioterest
j mg meetings.
Out cause u just, and will triumph.
GEORGE WEIR Jr.
Fbom LiaxaiA.—The U. S. sloop-ot-war
Decatur armed below Portsmouth on the
14th instant, from the Coast A
I letter to the Boston Pott, from one of heir
officers, gives accooats from the Republic of
Liberia to the 23d of September. The writer
says
“The Republic seems tube in s flourishing
condition, considering ihat.t it peopled almost
•onrely by slaves who have been liberated m
our southern states It bae*a liberal constitu
tion, wholesome laws, two newspapers,
cbuiches of various denominations, and well
conducted schools
A general election bad taken place a short
tune before we left President Roberta, who
is every way qualified lot the Cluel Lsgistra
ey, was re-elected. Of Vice-Preside:. i there
was no election by the people, sad the choice
devolves on Congress, which convenes ibis
winter. It was rendered quite probable
Mr. Warner, the p resent Secretary of c tale. I
would be choose.
“They base a ludietous tar id, bat have
sec yet pocf'cisd all the neeeafery arrases
meats fit the c 'flection of delies oo imports.
Their ceomeice is begieeiu to hTwmh
looking after/’
r«MMith Aaeiveisnrr off Ur Rhode
WmJ AaiUSUwif Social).
Iha Rhode Island Anti-Slavery Society
n»et in Mechanics Hall. Providence, on Wed
neaday morning, Not. l4th, l»4*
The meeting was called to order hy G*eorge
1<- Clarita, a ice President ot ihu Society,
and \N m. B. Sarrtngton *js chosen .Secret*,
ry, pro tern.
C C. Burleigh opened the discussion* by
forcible speech upon the past progress and
present standing of the Anti-Slavery cause
giving encouraging and cheering facts illus
trative of that progress.
Frederick Douglass followed in a similar
tone, and was succeeded by Dr. Walter Chan
ning, of Boston, who added further facts mark
ing our progress, and commented with satis
faction upon the recent intelligence of the
unanimous adoption of an Anti-Slavery Stale
Constitution by the people of California
The Society then adjourned to meet at 2 1-2
o’clock, P. M. Daniel Mitchr i was chosen
President pro tem C. M. Burleigh, Secre
tary pro tem and a Business Committee
consisting of the following persons, was ap
pointed.
Frederick Douglass, C C. Burleigh, Afro.
L. Clarke, Rev. Mlrtin Cheney, Mary B
Clark, James Adams Mr. Cheney declining
A. R. James was sulwtituted in his pface
Mrs. Little read a letter from a frienj
charging the Society with treating the Unit*
rians as Christians, and on that ground de
clining to act with it. Mr. Cheney gave a
hearty greeting to the abolitionists present *t
their meeting once again to mingle then sym
pathies and counsels and labors for the good
cause; though he was not a member of the
Society, and knew not that he agreed with
them in every point, he hoped that no dis
couragement or difficulty would dishearten its
members, or prompt the thought of disbanding
the organization. He vindicated the Society
from the objection of the letter just read, amt
rejoiced that on its platform no distinction oi
sect was know; that Baptists, Methodists.
Unitarians, Universalists, Quakers, and men
of every other sect, stood togethei as men and
abolitionists. After some informal and inei
dental discussion between Mr. Cheney, Kav
Potter, and C. C. Burleigh. Mr. C. contin
ued his remarks at 9ome length, denouncing
the Colonization Society, and appealing to ev
ery abolitionist by his love to the slave, the
country and humanity, to continue the agua
tion of thorough, uncompromising, anti-slave
ty principles, until we have an anti-slavery
Congress, and anti-slavery Literature, an an
ti-slavery Press, and Pulpit, and Church, an.',
an anti-slavery Nation—until the last vestige
of slavery is swept from the earth.
The Business Committee reported the resn
lutions, Nos. 1 and 2, which were accepted foi
discussion. The annua! report was then read
by the Secretary, a Financial Committee
consisting of the following persons was ap
pointed
Thomas Davis, Damei Mitchell, D. B Hat
ris, C. M. Burleigh, and F. Douglass
After further remarks by F. Douglass, C
C. Burleigh, and Ray Potter, the Society ad
journed to meet again hi the evening.
Cvening, the Society met as adjourned,
Daniel Mitchell in the Chair. Resolution
N*. 4, handed in to the Business Commute,
by some stranger, was read. C. C. Burleigh
•poke at length in support of resolution No
1; affirming the necessity of the anti-slavery
agitation to keep up the tone of the political
movement against slavery. C. L. Remond
followed in support of the sar .e resolution
recounting some evidences of the growing
anti-slave y sentiment of the country, and
urging an increase of anti-ala very zeal and
action. George 'Bradburn supported reeolu
tion No. 1, and opposed that avowing the
doctrine of no union with no slaveholders.—
The meeting was concluded hy a powerful
speech from Frederick Douglass, urging all
abolitionists to press on with the great moral
anti-slavery movement, leaving the political
movement to follow on behind as it must ol‘
necessity and showing that no political party
can lift the people above their moral condi
tion, or hope to sueeeed without adopting the
policy of availability. He declared the pur
pose ot the people of color to remain in the
country, whether well or ill treated, and nev
er go to Liberia, and appealed to the whites ro
so treat them as to secure their friendship and
sympathy. The negroes could not be kicked
and cuffed and abused without being made
enemies. 1 his nation had four million* ot
enemies in its own heart, made so by its own
actios. It had the power to convert them m
to friends, and why should it not do so hy re,
•peeling and protecting their rights. Mr. D.
closed by a quotation from Burns—
Then let us prav, that .-owe it may,
As come it will, tor a’ that,
That man to man, the world all o'er,
Shall Blithers be for a* that.’*
Thursday morning the Society met again
at 10 o'clock, Daniel Mitchell in the Chair
The minutes and resolutions having been read,
resolution No. 5 was presented by C. M. Bur
leigh, and followed by remarks on the pro
grees of the anti-slavery cause, and the ert
couragemenu to hope and labor in it* behalf.
Frederick Douglass Resented the claims oi
the North Star, and was supported by re
marks in its favor by C. L. Remond, Mr.
Cheney, and C. C. Burleigh, after which a
Nominating CouuniUee was appointed.
C. C. Burleigh, on behalf of the Busiuess
Committee, introduced the senes of resolu
none numbered 6,7, b, iu, 11, 12. They
were received for discussion, when the Socie
ty adjourned to meet again at half-past two
2 12 o’clock, P M Met according to ad
journment. At the opening of the meeting
remarks were made by C. M. Burleigh, on
the importance of an increase of zeal, activity
and liberality, in support of our cause ap
pealing to the abolitioniata present to give to
the Society the means for a more efficient agi
tation of the debate for the ensuing year
Reaoluuoo Ne. 3 waa then offered >y Geo. L-
Ctarke, who also presented the Treasurer
report, showing a trilling balance against the
Soc.ety, and brought up the subject of 'Fi
nance.
While the Financial Com run fee were taking
pledgee and donation* io u*u Society, the
■testing was farther addressed by C. L Re
need and others.
The following list ot officers «a« reported
by the Nominating Committee and unanimous
ly adopted
President— John Brown of East Greenwich
Vice President - Geo L. Clarks of Providence
<or President-Dr. Daniel Mitchell, i
pa* tucket
setary —Amarvn* v l ink, of Provt
gtfit
f -vmrer M vktin Rorin*on, do,
v :'a\.\o t ommittee —\Villiam Chase, A. I
es. S. M Wheeler, J. L. Claike,
a' Davis, Geo. L. Clarke, D B llar
s Marv H. Clarke. Abigail Burjjcs*, Al
r Lake, Daniel Mitchell, 8. K. Harris,
Sisson. John C. Francis. Joseph Chase,
i- I Bullon.
meeting then adjourned to evening.
nine.—The Society having convened al
r appointed hour. resolution* I and were
upied.
I tie following res. "lion prepared by Mia.
U J a so J.swl by a unanimous vote.
Ur*o]vc<l Thai this Society offer the warin
press ions of sympathy to the surviving
..I their beloved deceased lollow-labor
\j 4 tv Hathaway, whose presence so long
~f r r.i us. and whose memory should ever
pived in faithful remeinbranee.
I ;,r- 1 'solutions upon the constitution and
including the series offered by C. C.
p and that moved by Geo. L Claike,
ilicn taken up and discussed till a late
to Frederick Douglass, George Brad
i C. Burleigh, Thomas Davis, and
when, on motion of Thomas Davis,
hi ic all laid on the table, that the ques
i,t Ik* iiioic tullv’diseussed hereafter.
-oluuons N«' 4 and f» were not acted
or discussed for waul of time,
t; a lau* hour in the evening, the Society
u n>ed. mm dte, anil its members and
u j s n pavated gratified and grateful for ihe
r,i ami ptofitahle opportunity they had
m i. for communion with each other, and
tot the comnroti cause. The meetings
u!l well aiteiuie.l throughout, and during
iii *vrimigs the large Hall was crowded to
it;ovviii with ai* audience whose interest
to discussions was manifested by a quiet
;l£ j (Miuinued attention until the hour of ad
naient.
r M. IH KLKIGII, Sec y pro tem.
I: KSOI.I* T loss.
i R.-olved. That while we gratefully ac
hiiuwledge and rejoice ai the w ide spread in
,n ot our views and principles as evinced
j. general lone of lbe northern political
r n and the professions of tlu* political par
we still led deeply impressed with ihe
"Ur and importance of continuing to ope
ii upon the public mind by means ot the
and the voice of the living speaker, well
i v.iio that for all the anti-slavery action
ivt* w itnessed in either of the panics, we
.k bted w holly io the earnest and fearless
n v naiton of radical anti-slavery truth.
Ut -.dved, That we liail with sincere grat
.iio on me recent cheering intelligence ot the
j(ju i" (by the people of California) ol a
i in.-oiuiion in which slavery is forever pro
tiibiltd.
0 Kesolved, That then* is ample power un
;iConstitution of the 1 'toted Stales to
the overthrow of Slavery, and that
ivn •we should unhesitatingly prefer a dis*
Milutfoii <*t the. I’nion to ihe continuance of
c 'VStt*lll, WC SCC III) IIC.CCSSity for il
i io ilus dire alternative, but firmly be
uni slavery will be finally abolished by
:il v o-oper.itiou ot the friends of freedom, both
Norili ~iul South.
I Resolved, That vve regard ihe institution 1
i.i AiiKif-an slavery as belonging in its origin
most barbarous ages—a relic ot tlie
ii'Oiiuable form ot war, and that what
t r ,-s and aspirations we may indulge in
.-’ercTtct to the bettering of our social, poliii
i ;,l ,J religious condition, aside from ihe an
ii-sMvuy platform of action, we hold and be
iha’t through the instrumentality of the
1 nned .'Mates Government and the American
fluffh. slavery in this country will he over
’hrown.
j. Resolved, That recognizing the duty to
withdraw all voluntary support from the slave
svsipui. to maintain personal punty and con- j
6 iei,cv, and to neglect no opportunity to
a*--, tin* anti-slavery question upon the hearts
nhe people, we earnestly recommend to all
droiiliuniats to abstain from the products of
slave labor, and prelei products ol tree la-
M.r -.I far as is practicable.
Rt'-ulved, That inasmuch as llu* slavehol
det has no right to keep hi' slaves in bondage,
Old theiefor*.' that tho siave has a light to es
aj»e to freedom it lie can, and we have con
pi-ntiv itti right to hiudei him from doing
1;, retake and re-enslave him, and as
■At have*no light to make promises which
[iiiimt lightfully be kept, or laws which can
not rich thill v be obeyed, it follows that the
provision of the American Constitution which
the giving up ot the runaway slave
o his master, ought never to have been adopt
ed. and ought not now to be obeyed, nor have
vc any right to promise obedience to it.
Resolved therefore, That we hereby repeat
ti* announcement of our fixed purpose never
n. aid in the recapture and re-enslavement of
tbe escaping bondman, nor tupromise support
•i oitedience to the Constitution, while it con
•jitc ihe provision alluded to, but will always
•oik* best of our ability, as opportunity of
j*is. help the fugitive to gain and keep that
priceless blessing which he seeks, and to
a Let, lie has an inalienable right.
Resolved, Fuat we have no right to aid o
promise to-aid, in putting down by bloody vi
olence an insurrection of the slaves tor free
•Join, because if it is right to fight in defence
<•1 our most sacred and precious rights, the
slaves would be light in such an insurrection,
■Hid of course to fight against them would f)<j
'.rung, out it, on the other hand, it be wrong
to fight in defence* of our own lights, still
iiiu,-*; must it be wrong to fight against the
iiujot sacred anu precious rights of our leliow
“J,'n _
Therefore Resolved, That while (HeCon
-Ulution requires us to go at the bidding oi
an; slave state, and suppress by force the ef
tort oi the slave to win liberty by violence, w<
lave no right to promise, and will not promi*
.pport oi obedience to tliat Consimmon.
in Resolved, That as we have no right t<
fuiii peculiar privileges »o evil doers on ac
-mu of their evil douig, and in pruporUon u
i ntent we cannot rightfully invest lb*
aveholder with political power m proport.oi
the number of their slaves and therefor.
cannot rightfully sustain, or promise u
etun the Constitution while U gives tin
shv states a representation in Congress to
Sfihsot the slaves.
Thauf each individual is nior
.o' «<u*e hit help *e
a«»,» i"..;' a d
Ircwlom, a...
of nol.'heel po**' sieve
o. ilieir «he who
up of lh.« md.f|du.l«
,1 l,„ u „d io like the e'.rae
U Revived I’hal to take j*osiiron is U
allegiance to the iJamWMum, U
'II I, innu the pi. sent existing Americsi
1 h. and practically to adopt the rimito
H ijiuoii with Slaveholder*.
ni.ru —Hon. Horace Mann, in his lec
;i e ..riiitliiaii Hail, last Week, said, then
pit tall that be wished young men ti
Ibe gods ol (he vvoild, observed the
1 to fa-si dving out, and one.deity alori*;
wealth- Were U currently
iLAt die uver lordan was balded
h'*»i*J ;i,,ri inat the P|»«»l of Bethesda was
the Christian world would
Iran to lebuild Jerutalem, and
"“P* up for Palestine instead of
,J hit lteitOv.
Foreign New* of (be Week
The Caledonia arrived at But'on on Sahir
day last, after a pataage of above fourteen da ;t
from Liverpool. She bring* later intelligence
from Europe.
England. \V e find in our exchange*,
very full report* of impoitaot meeting* lield
at Birmingham and Manchester, to welcome
the Peace from the continent.
The movement i* of course mode the butt
of much raillery by the aristocratic and con
servative prints They do not ccav* to
aaeaii it with their leading articles, —an indi- 1
cation lhat they consider it a -matter of some i
importance, and worth the trouble if po«rb!#,
to bring down. But ncithei sarcasm, fun,
nor argument seem* to have much cjTect ‘upon
the movement. It proceeds on it* quiet
course,(lathering strength as it goes.
Capt. Sir James Ross has unexpectedly
arrived in London. S:r John Richardson had
a,so -arrived by the American packet, from
hi* overland expedition to trace and succor
the explorers. Neither Sir James Ros* nor'
Sir John Richardson has been able to dis
cover any trace of Sir Jonn Franklin and
hia companions but they encourage Jiopc
that the lost navigators arc still m safety on
some part of thecoa*t. Franklin'* ships, it
appears, were provisioned tor three years,
that I* from July, 1845 but he stated in his
last letters that he could extend it to four
years without serious inconvenience.
The European Times states that the nev
Envoy to the United States, Sir Henry L.
Bulwer, has sailed tn the Hecate steam sloop
for the scene of his diplomatic labors. It
apprehend* that Sir 11. Bulwer will be em
powered to settle the Nicaiagua difficulty on
any terms that may appear best calculated to
carry out the junction of the tw o oceans.
The steamship Sultan had arrived at
Southampton. Kossuth was not on board.
The captain had heard nothing of him in
Constantinople.
Ireland. The third weekly meeting of,
the Repeal Association, had been held. The
attendance was scanty. No enthusiasm can
be .got up on the subject of repeal. The rent
for the week was announced to be 00, Us.
fid.
The constabulary throughout Ireland arc
at present engaged in filling up return*, for
the information ol Government, of the quan
tity of produce, stock, poultry, &c., in the
island.
The sth of November, so much dreaded
in the North of Ireland had passed off tran-
quilly.
France. —The Paris Correspondent of I lie
Times writes on Nov. 2nd
“The Legislative Assembly presented a
most animated aspect to-day. The former j
Ministers arrived at an early' hour, and were
received with marked benevolence by the
members of the majority. M. Dnfaure and
de Toquevilie resumed their former sea.a
close to Gen. Cavaijjnac. None of ilie new i
Ministers were present at the opening ot the
silting. j
Gen. d' llautpaul read a paper, giving a
programme of the policy of the new Cabinet,
from which the following is an extract.
Peace abroad, guaranteed by the dignity
becoming to France energetic maintenance
of order at home an administration more
than ever vigilant and economical of the fi
nances of the Stale such is the programme
dictated to us by the interests ot the country,
the confidence of this Assembly, and the per
sonal conviction ot the Chief of the Govern- j
merit.”
At the fiist rank of our duties we place i
the piotection of labor in all its degrees and
forms. We, wish toe farmer and laborer, j
more and more reass ired respecting the fu- I
ture, should find at last completely thal con- j
fidence w'hich is beginning to revive.”
We also desire iliat that security should
spread to other regions, reanimate the labors
of intelligence, and restoie to capital ami lo 1
credit a spring too long relaxed.”
The Cabinet, in accepting the burden «>t
affairs which it dufriot seek, has counted on
your sympathy and support your exalted j
reason and patriotism have given it that
light.”
The programme was received without
any marks of approbation. There was only j
a slight laugh on the lelt when the General
descended the tribune, and the Assembly af
terwards adjourned.”
j The policy ascribed to the President on the
j Russian and Turkish question is gratifying.
He has boldly declared that France must as
sume a decided tone worthy ot her dignity
and character. His Ministers are not so
strong in their opinions on the matter.
Rome.—The Eternal City is still sutleimg
i from the iron rule of the Cardinal Triumvi
-1 rate. One of their recent and most tyranni
cal acts, is the suspension of the works on the
j railway to Naples, whereby thousands are
\thrown Out of employment. They call it a
useless scheme, “tending to inundate Rome
with worthless foreigners.” All the univer
sities in the Papal States are to remain closed,
until further orders.
j Sgi. Savelli, with a view of checking polit
ical discussion, has forbidden barbers to have
more than four customers at a time in their
shops.
Among the many arrests lately made at
Viterbo is that of the well known computer
Maestro Sclli. A list of lomteen persons
have appealed in the Roman journals, who
have l>eeii condemned by. couit-rnartial to va
nous periods of imprisonmeut, excepting one.
1 who is condemned to the galleys for twenty
years.
Austria and Hungary. —The Austrian
1 punts speak ot the suffering of the refugees ,i
Widdin, as being very great. It is said that
3000, under the apprehension of being forced
to embrace Islannsm, had returned to their
own country, and had entered the Austrian

service.
1 A letter from Constantinople the
I Tutks continue their warlike prc|«raiioit«.
i' a nd iheir whole Heel will beteadv vciy qmek
I )y, for they are actively at work uikwi i ■very
ship in the arsenal fit for service Turkey o
i gow iu a state to defy Russia
j No communication had been received fmm
i ,j |e F.iuperor of Russia relative to the replv
{the Poite.
The British fleet, under the command ot
*y p*rkflr, has arrtved at the entrance of the
j Dardanelles The Eoglish government has
I expreseed a determination to support the Sul
tan, m C3*t* of emergency
It i- supposed to tie impossible fur the En
perm to commence hoettle operation* against
Turkey, until May tn next year. In the
meauimte the dispute may adjusted.
Authority ha> been granted bv the Austri
an Government for the piinung of a journal in
the Hungarian language, 1® etlM ,fc
Hungarian Gazette.
Havnxu ban published an amnesty which
Include- ah whose *cr’once os fcdt nn
%i*e.n mure than twelve tnotsths lmprison
incut.
Austria has ordered t.c dr flics neai liakla.
Juhlunk t and PrrvmyA, Vadtng fiuai GJli
cia into Hungarv, t*» earetuMr fortified.
'li ikev and KT<ssia. —Explanations, u
?ecnw. have had tr» re; mad in the f'zar about
the sailing of the English anti French fleets
for the l>ard,tndies. The Czar has expressed
himself satisfled with the assurance tin? it
was the result of ,t misunderstanding lmt or
dered (‘omit Nesselrode t*» i mmtinieate to
the Turkish envoy, that the Emperor would
not admit that anv Power ha« a right to inter
fere in his difference* with tlic Porte, either
as regards the refugees, or the Provinces of
V\ allachu and Moldavia. T ito measures re
*;*X’tiisg these prorinces are t 1 he maintained
independently of any control of the Western
Powers.
C olored Convention in Ohio, to beheld
Jan. it. Jk.'mj.

fotht Colored Citizens of (ihio.
ft.low 111 zr.Ns —Tins I* an important
time, and the amount ol liberty e shall en
joy in the future, depends ::i no nail degree,
upon the improvement we mak of it. The
question wlie;tier the Consult.' *n of Ohio
shall he amended, has iw>-n pie:>osed to the
voters of the State, and affirm ively ans
wered
First among the aiticirs of tha! document-,
imperatively demanding altetaiiou, is tlmt
which excludes colored Freemen from U cn
j°>niem of The rights of sutFrag Since the
organization of the State, the <.'olore.it Peo
ple residing within its limits, have been sub
ject to all its laws, vet denied anv participa
tion, in making them compelled to pav lor
making laws, vet disallowed the v.a ien :b!e
right of saying wJiat those* laws shall he, by
whom made, or how much paid for making
hem. i he evils resulting from a depriva*
tiuri o| the elective fraud use, as v. d! the
blessings How ing from the possession and en
joyment of it, are too numerous to he tie- j
tailed here. Su flier it tosav.lhat those who
possess ami appreciate it. would as.soon sui-•
fender life as relinquish it.
In forming the present Constitution, the i
proposition to secure to the colored man. ihej
elective franchise, was lost i>y the ca.-tu.g
vote-oi tlie chai''man. Colorcu man's c*l;im; j
;o that inestimable right. was as indisputable!
as tint 01 tin whites. And tii ffames >i'
the ons ituuo i knew it. Toev .u-.v that!
in this countr\ struggle for Lu itv, colored
men sio.hj .-honkier to sfiouldei v tfi white
men, supporting the glorious c ist fi
ly pouring ont iln-.r blood upon in c:
altar. lint it p! d in excuse o' the j
liters id flit oimtituiou, unit pi cv L
ihe c. ;.c,;v oi the c ilore I an to ex
jedimousU H.I- right el ail tight.- At th
tune, thunk God, there, is no rootir lor Jeff
mi that subject. Out history is replete v
f.ets d°;nonstralivf of the truth, thru hetw, en
d' f.it** man and colored, God has put nn|
ditl'ereirue. "tiier than complexion that al>

Lliliercm e manitesting itself is purely acciden
tal. i hat il colored cm and while are
blessed witli influences alike auspicious, the'
advancement of colored men to distinction in j
learning, and every tiling else which is love-;
ly and of good re
as that of then white brethren. Thedevelrtp- I
merits of the past haw j
liberty to he advancing with grant s-m..», the
world over, and twere uncharitable to sus
pect Ohio of being unaffected by it. 'i he in
difference to our pout n.ii disabilities evinced
by the good people of phio, is doubtless
more, owing to want of knowledge of said I
disabilities, or at least our offerings ensuing!
Iroiu them, than any disposition to deal nn
justly and cruelly by us. Justice lias not fled
tne carili It llie people arc shown wherein
they are wronging n<. will ti»ov not desist 7
Certainly Ihetiue must enlighten them.
In order to do this, we must supply e ery
district and county in the s t a to w j,j, speakers
speakers 1 r. <lll among ourselves men w ofe
conceptions of hum <n right;; are bright and
unmistakable: Men who an command and
interest audiences, ami will tell ihein the
story of our woe as it m. This done, the
very stone* wilt cry out in our behalf. To
supply speakers, money is necessary. Then
l every colored man in the State, upon the
altar of whose soul biases the tire of liberty,
I be 111 Columbus the Oth day of next January,
in State Convention, prepare to do all that
lean he done in furtherance of this glorious I
land hchve’n botn enterpuze.
ilavid Jenkins., t 'hoirman.
JAS HoiNDEXTFn.
L. I>. -TAVLOf.
I M. Heowsi,
J. L Watson,
H. Langston,
I W. Shelton.
State Central Committee.
Columbus, Nov. 1. I^4l*.
Receipts'
fo/ l\if NuRI H .S i A U fT'tfn t*u titiit. tif itiwl t>. (r»i nr
lnif> iii'nt fo .\i r. IS.J<|,
J II Re* ves, Neixaik j. ,oy
,S (irsuim*, Leroy 'j on
K S tt aruer j jOo
Knock ('l.'irke, t’o* !m iiitoo, U 5,0<l
\N in Th<.*«ip«ou. IGiifiviite, Pa.
U in ’elurr.tiia, Pa 2 flu
l-‘»ai‘ Keiimn, Sinimousville, R I 2,00
Jotin Hall. Providence, R I 1,00
I riuana; Oavin, 2,00
J R Jiihnew 1.00
jjNSiniffi, 2 00
jiweiH (Vrrn ],OO
Duniur Harris 2,00
Henry K«w V» 2,00
i t'jilrli Roilrim T,OO
i liforje Help t,ou
Win Dorser 1,00
G Strft V ,00
AlpOpn** Jaßr 3 JtO
Henrv (ItempiM, ii -k*»uiid, R I 2,00
t'ri' re |j*s* is, i eegM t «miu 2.t*o
tft-tn Paviimkcl, R I 2,1 M)
I«heH> J \.iaius, Jmi
J.din Hal*. 'wf^tcltel, R I .00
Ax,!.’. Af Rr*H u, _i- *V. R t 2,w
VlM*n.«u W 1 iiH 41, i aii Ki**l Miiv i.‘ M
Mr «*W 3
t Sarah Harri*
Qii- i Ruff nr* m ,l^
j U miriM.u*. New Mm
R>>heft Tripp
R l J JJO
Jan,- P IRs L l
<’*pi lhmk*-i f 4tf llarrrt, Maf* 2.00
‘VdUs Nrv. Abii), lint J.OO
H 1 Molt, HtAmry Otav*, Mn i 2m
J„ j,. HrTif*4«-*d W®
Dill.. IkaiAtiuu W
Jjo.b J u:U'», irink l 4*oo
J SxOi ry J.»or Pl»ik*t#^>*ua. Pa T'*»
Stephea H Ckjoaptio 'J*
Notices.
The ltochcMer \imunl XtttUf.
The Weiltrn N. V. Anti-Slavery Society,
v- iH hold Un»ir annual meeting on the Mh and
3th r»f January in the city of Rochester,
w hich ur friend* in tire city and country arc
earnestly invited to attend v We feel that the
(injunction “neglect nut the assembling ol
ye.irs- !r>** ought most faithful*
'y t" be adh: re! to, remembering it is by uni-
I ledVifort; that the bonds of the tittered slate
maM If* broken. We know that the laborers in
the gr* ai v.ur* of reionu arc comparatively
few but, "Truth is mighty,” and we are
encouraged m believing “that the dan of re
dempliori drawetti nigh as we are assured
thaj the faithfulness of the few tried and devo
ted friends of freed »m hns already sundered
tht chain* and set at liberty many a despon
ding captive, and the reflection stimulates us
to a greater duvoteducss, knowing full well
that the corrupting and demoralizing effects
ol slavery on our white as well as our colored
brothers and aistew, caii loudly and impera
tively upon our hottest feelings, for energetic
action, while opportunity is yet aff
Considering the disabilities we arc laboring
under, ami the apathy uf the mass around us,
on this vitally interesting subject, much has
b ;en done in these parts during the past year;
but n steady, persevering, uncompromising
devotion is indispensable, and vve hope that
while vve labor with uniiriug zeal to strike at
the root ot to iut. mat *v»iem, we •hall tc
inember that bursting the fetters shogUJ be
followed by the genial inflect,ces <d sympa
thy and elev.t :ju, ami, that dating our dehle
orations some suggestions may i»e made with
regaid to devising means to place the escaped
bondmen in situations in which their long
-ned intellect, tlietr mrmhood called
out, that they may be prepared to receive the
truth that they may be recipients of God's
and thus hi enabled to enjoy the bm>n ol
liberty, of winch they have so lung been role I
b ,i. \\e again say to our friends.far and i
i ear, Dome up to our annual gathering, where
by a tree and spontaneous interchange of sen
timent, we may scatter seed that will eventu
a iy yield a rich harvest.
Frederick Douglas- will be present, and
speakers from abroad will be invited to at
tend.
SAlLtli D. l'lStl, Cor. <S u'y.
Rochester, Nov Ivltii 1849.
Western New 'l oik Annual Anti-Slave-
ry I’air at Koohester.
I Ins fair v. I be opened the lGth of-Jaim-j
r\ ;.exi, instead ot December, as has been,
hireconteopiated and published. The post
-liemcnt will doubtless meet the approval of
i i rovorned. We shall need more time for
:i ar tmu. the old articles are nearly all
i.» of, ■•te! this yem we must have an
i 11 w:■ i 1 W i iiope there are already J
ir';;;y wing eireVs formed in different parts,
\\h i rr!o !y engaged in making up the
_real *ri..;y i I useful and beautiful articles,
pr< tiled at oui lair. We
:isk cver\ riboiitioniat, and every friend ot the
cause in this Mato especially, as well as
friends in every other State, toleel themselves
bound to be represented, either personally or
iiv donation, nt tiro Kocliefter Fair. Let none J
1
Lei themcolvos excused from laboring earnest-
I
iv to make this nti-Slavery Fair worthy of 1

lhe cause.
Some ot onr warm-hearted Kuiopc-an friends,
'rave already prepared and forwarded a box of
ariiclvs adus in this movement Truly,
their disinter...- mduess and devoledhess ought
to tinge eve* y si.ivt holder'sdieek with shame j
—stir every notihern .abettor's heart with re- i
moi.se, and tirnuiate every abolitionist to 1
double zeal, the North Star we intend to I
sustain, ami we r. k the zeal.ms co-operation
ot our Iricnds m.-o doing. Lectures are much
needed, and c this suction of the Slate there
is a wide fiek! for profitable exertion.
Seed diligeiniy .own will yield a hundred
or atlioi■-■and fold, ahd ‘he bread of truth cast
upon th waters will return after many days.
The pt i so;:ai attendance of anti-slavery friends
at the l ilt is earnestly solicited, and confldent
ly i tic,paled. atyi vve trust that we shall be
able to make it more worthy the patronage of
the community Rian any that has preceded it.
On behuii of the Fan Committee,
AMY POST.
Appeal of the Philadelphia Association
The “Women's Association of Philadel
phia' appeal m a benevolent public, and to
the friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them m th ir approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star”
To’tree-■ who ar< f.iiP'iiar with the pages of
tins paper it is unnecesary to speak oi its
merit. To those who have not seen it we
may say, that vve regard it as one of-the very
bt-t anti-slavery instrumentalities now in the
field.
We arc the more interested in it, liecause
the editor one o! our oppressed race, and
Admirably qualified by itis talents and moral
wo!th, to perform with credit the arduous
i. 1. of editing a paper oc voted to our eleva
non. We believe and trust that our friends
will give. O' their liberal aid.
To our own people w c look earnestly ank
i h'.pefuMv. S -’.rs, Brother-*, shall we b»od
!in vain t Th iron ha entered into your soujs.
Ye go heavily, Gnawed down to the very dust,
i dispirited, crushed by the weight of oppres
,aj .*i. Ve hear the taunts of the enemy.
**They arc so ignorant and unrefined 1 They
ar jealous ot one other' Yes, they unite
j but it is tHily to put down one who is more
ini. I feet uai than ihc mass'" Prove by the
ti erring langu ige of conduct that tliesc as
seriions «o often thrown in our faces are rna
fici.ms stamler*. Sustain F. Douglass, he
caus- ius talents and correct principles de
mand vour rod|*-ct and confidence. Sustain
(it's it right to do so, aird because
~j the hvc t i -ace the performance of mi wor
thy .v, action will assuredly bring it into your
iffssoms.
t Fair w ill l«e held no Oimlmas week.
Donation* tor it may be *em to
H X.RRIL 1 SMITH, 319 lawnhaid street,
UVriIKL LLOYD, 3M Pme-etieet,
\MY M ASStY. tt 3 Lombard-sweet,
i i», i any acmdier t the Aseoeiatine.
H 1 r> j :l m VfFt. Liioa Axil Bust ill,
M vrt HveeoTT, llettt Bt »t,
11, ti is v Bristol, Hclk* Johns,
H Uhl ip ti STILL. Fktz* Joxes.
MIU-S
>A KMI M. DOUGLASS, Cor. S*e>.
No 54 MullWcry tL
PhilsJelphp, GUr m0.,‘35. 1H49-
H. ;u KuwmOott- T 1?
\Ya- tigiwa .-orrc.»poe«lcol of* *■-v i ork
the f.dbiwwg hint —"I wot#
jtugg;. x to those who «i*.template going m
I'aaitonu- 3U»„»n, that Wu'y b-* trnjdp pml
hy iHdavibg tlM'ir departote onlil *fler the
f*e*s»gc **d'»b® ot lire
*re give* to tbe gwblrc. Ihe
WoirwoU will throw flood of light u» the
ifbiri (if the Pacific cout. J i

I
bru tm aj»b Coiirftiwv —lt n
truth, tint ihmima Ti t»U victim*
to cb—wplinn ttm mt ftm n Mkt ohm ilvn
neglected colds, yet we had hundreds, nav thou
I samb, who trwi «wb rumpbiat* with the
iiriifracr. ami In ran am far Mil, and
i even months, withmb dunking of Urn ifaiyr- At
fan, tun have what you rnttidr a d.gbi ct or
cold; vita allow tanarw, pleasure or carelcsww »i to
pTTt-at ton Iron it aar hmm it tfara
settles upon year »wt. rom heroine boarse, have
pior it the side or tketi, expectorate targe quart
f titles of matter, perhaps muted with blood: a d«t
fir oh tof breartitay r arms, and tfaaa too find vow
owa foolish neglect faaa brought on this ctunplaitu
j If, thro, too valor vow life or health, be vrarjned
ia time, and don't trifle with yam cold, or trust to
any ipacfc nusttaw to care you hut immediately
1 procure a bottle or too of that famous remedy UR
AVISTAR’S of WILD CHF.RRT,
whir h is well known to he the most speedy cure
1 ever knowh, as thousands will (ratify, whose lives
have bem saved by it.
For influenza it is the very best medic iue ia the
world.
j Hr no* deceived, remember that spurious waits*
Immm ami other preparations of WiM Cherry abound
throughout the law!, I sit it is Dr. Wistar’s that has
performed so many thousand wonderful cures,
therefore buy no other hut the genuine, original
Balsam of Wiki Cherry.
Always signed 1. BUTTS on the wrapper.
For sale by Post It WlLttS; also by Wm.
P'T*«*-
The Golubs Regioss.—Everybody is talking
at»ot the Golden Region, and many in Northern
j Wisconsin ar*’ preparing to go. We would advise
those who go by bad to purchase half a dozea boars
of .Sloan'* tlcrse Medicine, and a lot of his Fami
ly Ointment. We know several instances in this
virinitv übere this mediciue has effected miraculous
cures: and we therefore adTise all who take the
ovei laud route to be well provided with this article.
There is no humbug obout it.— Wisconrrw Repub
lican.
QCJ* See Agents’ names at the liead of Sloan s
Column. For further particulars ami testimonials,
get pamphlets of a gents
DISC OVERIES IN CEN
TRAL AMERICA.
The Literary World publishes th<
following extract from a letter recentlj
read before the Ethnological Society
at a meeting held in New York, Iron
the Hon. George Squier, minister o
the United States to Central America
giving a brief account of some anti
quarian researches in which he has
heen engaged.
“Although I have been much occu
pied with otficial business,” says Mr.
Squier, “I have in the intervals whicli
ottered during the progress of my ne
gotiations, and since their termination,
been able to pay some attention to the
antiquities of the country. I have suc
ceeded to an eminent degree in obtain
ing the coniidence of the Indians, and
have secured some of their vocabu
laries. In fact, the Indian Pueblo ol
Subtiava has presented me a formal
address, written in tho aboriginal
tongue, and would rise in arms to-mor
row at mjr call. In presenting it, the
spokesman exclaimed with startling
emphasis, ‘the Spaniards have had
their feet on our necks very long; we
hope the sons of Washington will over
whelm them as they have us; we hate
then!* It sounded strange to hear the
Indian talk of Washington; but his
name familiar in every rancho, and
‘Haiti Sons ol Washington,’ is a com
mon salutation from bare-footed inotut
on the Toed— ‘Tbs Indians or Subtiava
have dug up for me a number of their
idols, and are now exhuming more.
They impose but one condition, that i
shall have no Spaniard with me when
I go to see them, and shall keep the
ocalities secret. These idols, though
much emalter, cloeely resemble those
of Copan in workmanship, and were,
no doubt, dedicated, to the same or a
very similar purpose. 1 have eight in
my possession, ranging from five and a
half to eight feet in height, and from
four to five in circumference. The
laces of most are mutilated—an evi
dence of the fanatical zeal of the early
Spaniard#, who waged a war of exter
mination upon the superstitions of the
aborigines. They did not, however,
aueceed in eradicating them; for they
are blended in a singular manner, and
no ineonsiderabie proportion, with
the calboiis rites imposed -by the con
qeeroas.
Uetty an Indian, within the sound of
the bells af the cathedral, offers his
libation of title (ground parched corn
and sugar mixed with water) to the
gods of the fields for the success of his
crops, end secretly burns gums from
the forest before an earthen idol or a
caned atone, carefully hidden from the
scrutiny of the priest in some obscure
corner of his hut. Upon these matters
they however, maintain all the reserve
of the Indians of the North, strength
ened by fear of exposure to the rigors
of the priesthood. Some of the sta
tues to which I have referred, have
the same elaborate head-dresses with
others ot Copan; one bears a shield
upon his arm; and still another has
risen above its head the sculptured head
of an alligator. All are very ancient,
and the places of their deposits have
been handed down from one gene*6-
tion to another. The fragments oi
many are to ho found within a few
miles ol Leon; and there must origi
nally have been a great number scat
tered over the country.
Perhaps the most remarkable locali
ty, with the exception of the Island ol
Ometpe in Lake Nicaragua, is the Isl
and of Momotnmbita in the Lake ol
Monagua. I paid a visit to this island
early in July. It is a beautiful volcanic
dome, rising with all the symmetry ol
a sugar loaf from the midst of the lake.
Before it towers the great volcano ol
Motnotombo, from the bare and black
ened summit of which still rises the
smoke of internal fires. Momotombita
is indeed a remarkable island, and the
traveliar who gazes upon it from the
shore of the lake is not surprised to
learn that under the shadows and
amidst the gloom of its dense forests,
fringed by the stems of ages, stand the
rude and frownfng statues of the gods
of aboriginal superstition.
Many of these have been removed,
and are scattered over the country;
and some, I believe have been sent
abroad. A number still remains; but
the largest of all, I brought away with
me at the cost of a day’s bard labor,
and at great risk in passing 15 miles
upon the lake, and in a gusty night,
and a boat scarce able to sustain tiie
great weight. This bad resisted the
exertions of I*2men on one occasion;
after moving it a few rods, they bad
abandoned it in despair. The boatmen
thought me mad, and crossed them
selves devoutly when 1 proposed to
carry it away. They offered prayers
on the lake, and made vows. After
breaking down one or two carts, 1
finally got it to this city in safely, and
shipped it, with ten or a dozen more,
via Kialejo and Cape Hope, for Wash
ington. But to return. It seems that
there were originally some thirty or
forty of these statues of various sizes,
and more or less elaborately carved,
arranged in one place, in the form of a
square all looking inwards. The di
mensions of the square cannot now’ be
ascertained, hut the few remaining fig
ures and fragments show that the state
ment is correct.
It is a singular fact, and another
evidence of the prevalence in America
of the doctrine ol the two reciprocal
principles of nature (the active and
passive, male and female,) that these
figures were represented, some as male
and some as female. ‘The Indians of
i Honduras,’ says Herrara, ‘wprshidk>en
two images, male and female,' vv&ich
they call the great father and the great
mother,' and of which, he says, a little
further on, the sun and the moon, were
also representatives. I have heard ol
other localities, similar to this, which 1
propose to visit, and shall therefore not
repeat what was told me concern
ing them.
1 must not however, forget to men
tion that there has lately been discov
ered, in the province ot Vera Paz, 150
miles north-east of Guatemala, buried
in a dense forest, and far from any set
tlements, a ruined city surpassing
Copan or Palenque in extent and mag
nificence,and displaying a degree of art
to which none of the structures of Yu
catan can lay claim. The government
of Guatemala sent a commission to ex
amine it hut their investigations were
soon interrupted by the civil commo
tions of the country, and they were
only able to bring away some rude
plans and imperfect drawings. 1 shall
go there as soon as my duties will pea
mit. 1 learn also of other interesting
monuments near by, in Honduras and
San Salvador, of which no public men
tion has has yet been made. I shall
pay all the attention I can to these,
although there is too much for man
to hope to do well. But “Here goes,”
notwithstanding!
VICTOR HUGO.
The celebrated poet, dramatist, and
j novelist, is a short man, of apparently
I thirty-five, although he must be con
siderably older than lie appears. In
form he is full, in stature low. His
bead seems vastly disproportioned to
I bis body. The forehead is immense,
and w hite as snow, although he is not
bald. His hair is black, complexion
blonde, mouth, nose and chin small, as
well as his eyes, which are dark, and
overhung by the brow; expression
thoughtful and rather sad. His neck
is so short, and his shoulders so broad,
j that he seems to wear his monstrous
head, like the Patagonians, between
his shoulders. Nverthelcss, Hugo has
by no raetun* an ugly or uninteresting
person, fits dress—and one may as
well attempt to sketch the outline of a
horse without his hide, as to convey
the least idea of a man without his
dress—was a dark blue pants
and white vest, with cotytir a la byron.
This matter of the collar is peculiari
ty in Paris. Everybody wears a stand
ing collar except Hugo and Montalem
hert, and almost every one but these
wears short hair.
Hugo seemed always extremely
busy when I was in the Chamber,
reading pamphlets, or opening and
reading letters, and answering them;
and at the same time laughing and
chatting, with great animation and hu
mor, to the numerous members who
called at his desk. As a man of genius
and letters, Victor Hugo stands in the
very first rank in France. As a legis
lator—os a popular speaker, however,
he seems not to have been se entirely
successful. How much of this ill suc
cess has been owing to that absence
of practical ability which men of
genius often exhibit in tbe management
or discussion of public attain, and how
much has been owing to tbst feeling of
jealousy so eften exhibited by proctieal
men st any infringement of men of let
ters upon what they deem thpir pre
rogatives, is not easily determined. It
however, very certain that the grtti
poet was by no means toeceanl to
his first appearance in the Tribune,
and that itc has not been there since.
A caricature of Hugo has recently
caused some little merriment, as it baa
collected a crowd at the windows of the
firint shops. It presents a short, fat
ittle man, with a huge head, sattiog in
a contemplative attitude, pen in hand,
upon a pile of boohs, lettered Poetry,
Romance, Drama, Re. These booki
rest upon a cheat filled with bags, am
labelled “Rentes.” Hugo is wealthy.
Upon this pile of books sits the little
man, with a big head, hia elbow repos
ing against the towers of Notre Dank,
one heel resting on the dome of the
French Academy, and the other upon
the Theatre Frauaais, while on bin
right is Porte St. Mart me. In the back
ground are caught glimpaea of the
most unearthly objects, that one would
suppose even the imagination of the
“Prince of Horrors” could evoke.
There are various amusing pendptUs to
the piece. For instance, a swUm of
little are striving to climb the
great poet’s legs, and to kiss the soles
of his boots. The application of the
caricature to Hugo is easy at Paris.
e STUFFING AND SMOKING.
e Dr. Culverwell says, that medically
0 speaking, snuffing and smoking are
d both abominably unwholsome. They
are delightful relaxations. Personally
e speaking (for I have been a snuffer and
9 a smoker,') 1 can bear witness to the
great comfort and satisfaction I have
derived from them.
A cigar, during an evening stroll, is
1 highly agreeable and companionable,
but it is habit only which renders it
necessary. It is pleasant 1 admit (and
Indies do likewise,) to catch the whiff
s of a fine Havana on a frosty night, of
an out-door walk. Nor do I object en
e tering a bachelor's crib, where only
3 real tobacco is going on—but a five
minutes' stay therein is enough.
1 To those hom smoking causes to
1 spit, it is productive of great depres
sion and considerable nervous irritabili
ty; to those who say they swallow their
3 saliva, it is equally pernicious; to those
who are insensible to secretion, it acts
1 locally, and its influence is conveyed
1 by the nervous extremities to the brain.
It would appear ill-natured and cyni
cal to forbid a solitary cigar, but as in
I this page I have only to do with its
salutariness, I cannot speak in its favor.
“I have never suffered from it,”
may say someone. Welland good;
1 I do not forbid you taking one, but it
surely cannot be wholesome for those
who do. Besides what is agreeable it
is very difficult to believe can be hurt
ful. Nevertheless it may be so; and
smoking in the majority ofinstances, I
am convinced is so.
What is the property of tobacco?
Sedative stupefying, creative of vom
iting, and if swallowed in the form of
an infusion, poisonous.
Let any man ask himself, after spit
ting and puffing, if he feel better for
it; the reply generally is, “Oh, it is so
soothing—it gives rise to such agreea
ble thoughts—it carries the mind back
to the past—it makes a man comforta
ble even in bis .troubles. How happy
r every one appears with a cigar or a
pipe in his mouth, from the lord to the
basket-woman.”—A geat deal of this
may be true, but, on the other hand,
the great smoker is generally shaky
and nervous, and, like the drinker,
never happy, hut when engaged in his
1 favorite propensity. Of what use is
he then to anybody, or even to himself?
None. The little smoker, the occa
sional smoke breather, before he
gets through his first, or give him cred
it for two or three, is left with a dry
mouth and a nasty taste, a desire to
drink; and although some will deny
that smoking provokes drinking, ex
copt coffee or water, few can dispense
with grog, ale, or wine. Other people
it muddles, makes them swimmy and
very disagreeable to talk to.
Many men smoke twenty or thirty
cigars or pipes in a day, and a young
town buck thinks it derogatary to his
buckhood unless he can whiff away
two or three. To say nothing of the
nuisance of smoking, the habit, capti
vating and socializing as it may be
held to be, is decidedly bad, very bad
for delicate persons. As to chewing,
it is an expensive habit. It is so beast
ly a one, that there is little fear of an
invalid resorting to it. It is equally
pernicious, nay, more so then smok
ing.
Snuffing is sometimes used medicin
ally, and with much success. Light
i stimulative snuffs are useful in the
affections of the head and eyes, and as
a gentle refresher, I have no objection
to it; but real snuffing, where a man
i consumes half an ounce daily, and soils
half a dozen pocket-handkerchiefs in
the twenty-four hours, for those sort of
snuffers awake purposely at night to
take a pinch, is, I contend very ener-l
yating, very depressing, except at the
intermediate moment, and extremely
hurtful even to digestion; for despite
all the precaution, the snuff or its juice
(bah!) will get down the gullet.
Halt a dozen pinches after dinner
are allowable. Young men should par
ticularly avoid becoming snuffers; a
very short indulgence makes them look
ten years older. These habits are
very easy to acquire, and very difficult
to leave off; but it is not, as some peo
ple say, dangerous to abandon them at
the eleventh hour of your life.
Mayhap such may not be necessary,
but I have known people give up amov
ing and snuffing, which they bad in
dulged in for years, af a moment’s
notice, and those people have been my
patients, and they have sooo found ma
son to thank mo for the advice.
op A CIAIY
A DEPUTY Of HIS STATNIC MAJESTY CAL
LIMG ON i CATHOLIC rSIKST.
The Reverend father Geiburg, a
catholic priest—says a late German
paper—was lately awoke early in the
morning by his servant, who said that
a visitor was iu the room below and
wanted to see him immediately. The
good priect not feeling very well, or
being reluctant to leave his downy
couch at so early an hour, sent down to
know the business of the caller but
was told that as it was a matter of
the most vital importance, it would only
be cotnmunicatud to Mr. Geiburg him
self. The servant described bin as a
well dressed gentlemanly person, and
this induced the priest to bare him sent
ap to his bed-room, so that after the
business was settled, be might consign
himself for a few more boors, to the
arms of Somnus. It was, however,
otherwise fated; sleep did that morning
no more refresh the energies of the fat
priest. The visitor was ushered in
and took a seat near the bed side.
M Whom bare I the honor of addres
sing'” said Mr. Geiberg. “You see
before you the most miserable man.”
waa the answer, whilst the visitor went
to the door and locked it inside, so as
to prevent intrusion “Explain, sir,
explaio,” begged the priest, probably
having visions of comfort of religion,
absolution, and a well lined purse.
“My errand is a most painful one,” re
turned the stranger, “painful both to
me and to yourself, but my mind is
made up, and it must be done.” He
goes for a confession, thought the
priest. “Know then, sir,” continued
the stranger, that last night I was as
is my custom, busily engaged iu read
ing the word of God. I was not only
reading it, but also interpreted it to'my
self, and derived much consolation from
it. It was near midnight, when I read
of the evil spirit how it in former times
appeared to men. I could not believe
it—l could not conceive how the Al
mighty ruler, in his wisdom, could
create a power to tempt and mislead
weak mankind.”
The priest, by this time, must have
got much interested. “Presently,” re
sumed the stranger, “I heard a noise
in my room, and looking round, J ob
served that I was no longer alone. The
evil spirit was with me—he stood im
mediately behind my chair. ‘Unhappy
man,' said he, in a deep voice ‘to dis
believe the word of God.’ I knelt
down, but he commanded me to rise.
‘Rise,’ continued he, —‘no peace, no
rest shalt thou have; no comfort, no
happiness shalt thou know until by thy
hands one of those who preach and sin
against me lias suffered death.’ With
these words the spirit disappeared, and
to save my soul from perdition 1 have
come to obey him—you must die.”
The Reverend gentleman must have
been awfully confounded by this dis
closure. -He preserved bis presence
of mind, and at once proposed to sacri
fice another priest instead of him, to
which his visitor demurred. The mani
ac—for such he was—and Mr. Gei
berg, had, of course, discovered it, then
beckoned to him to get up, at the same
time taking from his pocket a good
sized knite. The priest then coolly
asked him to he allowed to dress,
speaking of his death as a matter of
course, and talking very loudly that
his servant, who was in tho habit of
listening, might hear him. The servant
did hear him, too, hut was too fright
ened to move. The maniac begged
him to hasten, and the awful moment
seemed to be drawing near, when the
priest hit upon the lucky idea, of sug
gesting the propriety of taking down a
summary of the proceedings on paper,
to which the visitor agreed, and putting
4own his knife on the dressing table,
set about writing down <the commands
of Satan, and how he was going to
obey them. Mr. Geiberg coolly ex
amined the knife, and telling.the mani
ac that it was scarcely sharp enough,
asked if he had not another. The an
swer was that he had nothing else, hut
that the priest would, perhaps, oblige
him with a razor, which foolish request
was scarcely made, when the good fa
ther threw the knife out of the window,
and shouted for help. A rough and
tumble fight then commenced between
the two, the maniac looking about for
some destructive weapon, hut finding
none he had nearly strangled the father
with his hands, before assistance came.
The maniac was secured "and taken J
back to an asylum, from which lie had
only escaped the day before. The ser
vant who had listened all the while,
was so overpowered that she had fain
ted, and the loud shouts of the priest
were heart! by people in the street, who
thus opportunely saved him from
death.
The Shark Charmers. —“No sum
of money, however large, no temptation
sufficiently strong —would induce ths
divers to descend into the ocean, unless
two shark-charmers were present, who
they believe, by their charms and po
tent spells, prevent the finny monsters
of the deep from injuring the pearl-seek
ers. One of these impostors goes out
in the pilot’s boat, and remains at the
head of it,{muttering a prescribed form
of incantation as each tnan descends to
brave the pearls j> f the vasty deep.
The other man is left on shore,and
is shut up in a room;where he remains
in a state of nudity until the boat’s re
turn with divers),with a large brazen
bowl filled with water,in which is placed
two silver fishes,and they affirm the mo
ment that a shark appears the fishes ag
itate the water, and, if an accident is
about to happen, one fish will bite the
other, when immediately! the charmer
“binds the shark with a potent spell,
and compels the creature to abstain
from injuring the divers. These shark
charmers reap a rich harvest during the
fishery,as the natives believe that,un
less they are liberally remunerated,they
will exert their powerful spells to make
the sharks injure them, instead of com
pelling the monsters to remain quietuntii
the pearl fishery is over It is lather
singular that, although sharks are fre
quently seen by the divers, an acident
never happens, and numberless fish
eries have taken place without a single
accident occurring.” —Dublin Mug.
An exchange says that about 180 tons
of ivory are used annually in Sheffield,
England. It is estimated that 18,000
elephants are killed annually to make
up the a supply.
“A ML'ISASCS Asatso.” —We cut oat fur
insert ion so article of the above title on the
death of Nativism in Pennsylvania, hoi ii
fat mislaid. Never was there a meaner,
more prodigate or despicable fimuon than
that of the demage goes who sought to bring
themselves into a notoriety thev oottld not
otherwise secure, by petting the torch to the
combustible materials of nations! prejudice,
sad that sacking to stray brethren of one
common destiny, In bitter hostility against
SOeh other. Thank Chad, tbe haw purpose
wee freetmted, sad dm enemies of (led and
amo mhosatartsited it, ere sunk in “that
Abyss of rain which they sprung” - Burlington Courier
