From The Independent.
SHALL WE COMPROMISE?
Mr. Clay’s Compromise has beeii vi
olently resisted by the South, and but
coldly looked upon in the North. It is
not that both sides are infatuated and
refuse a reasonable settlement. But
the skill of Mr Clay has evidently not
touched the seat of disease. Ho either
has not perceived, or has not thought
it expedient to meet the real issue now
before the people of the United States.
The struggle is one whose depths lie in
the organization of society, in the North
and South respectively; whose causes
were planted in tiie Constitution.
There are two incompatible and mu
tually destructive principles wrought
together in the government of this land.
Hitherto, like Esau and Jacob, they
have atriven together in the womb.
Now they are born, and that feud has
begun which shall drive the one or the
other to the wilderness. To attempt
to settle a radical opposition of polity,
by easing oft* the rub here and there,
leaving the great principles in full vig
or, as if one should hang fenders and
sand-bags along the side of hostile
ships that come crushing together in
stead of putting the helm about and go
ing another tack. *‘Slavery is right,”
and “Slavery is wrong;” “Slavery
shall live,” “Slavery shall die;” “Sla
very shall extend,” Slavery shall nor
extend;” —are these conflicts to be set
tled by any mode of parcelling out cer
tain territories? Now the battle rages
at one point. By and by it will rage
at another. These oppugnant ele
ments, Slavery and Liberty, inherent
in our poltical system, animating our
Constitution, checkering our public
policy, breeding in statesmen opposite
principles of government, and making
oar whole wisdom of public legislation
on many of the greatest questions
crosseyed and contradictory, elements
are these seeking each other’s life.
One or the other must die.
We give Mr. Clay sincere praise
for desiring peace. We think it wor
thy of his reputation, to have declared
that he would never vote for the exten
tion of slavery. If his compromise had
taken that determination as its starting
point, he would then have come near
er to our ideas of the leader which our
times and our difficulties demand. It
is no sportive joust upon which our na
tion is gazing. The shield of the chal
lenger pangs out for no blunted lance.
Like Ivanhoe, we should have been
glad had Mr. Clay struck tne shield of
I)u Bois Gilbert with the sharp lance
head, importing earnest battle. One
straightforward speech against the ex
tension of slavery, based|not upon po
litical reasons, but on the great princi
ples of humanity and justice; one glow
ing appeal to the whole nation to take
the stand, which he has personally ta
ken, nevtr to volt for the exteneion of
Slavery on either tnde if any line; this
would have been a noble statesmanship
and crowned the last years of the rev
ered sage of Ashland with the bright
est glory of his life!
Let no roan suppose that the conten
tions which now agitate the land, have
sprung from the rash procedure of a
few men—the hot-beads either of the
North or of the south. We are in the
midst of a collision not of men, but of
principles and poltical institutions.
The inevitable course of affairs has
been developing the results for which
5 provision was made, first in the orga
nization of society, and then in the
structure of the Constitution. No har
vest ever answered more closely to the
husbandman’s seed, than do our diffi
culties to the original sowing.
The north, adopting the theory
yf democracy, organized all her eml
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
and industrial institutions upon that ba
sis. Every man, the lowest, the least,
the highest and best, had one common
platform of rights. The South, adop
ting the theory of aristocracy, made
two platforms—the one for the govern
ed, the other for the governors. The
one and the other It gan at once to ex
hibit their results. In the North, labor
was voluntary, honorable, aad univer
sal; in the South it was compulsory,
and made disreputable by being fasten
ed upon an abject class. Of course the
laborer had different values. In the
North, he was a citizen, capable o(
any honor, framing his own laws, ma
king his oWh rules, and so an integral
element of the State. In the South,
ha neither voted nor determined; he
had no rights; he was a slave. Labor
and Laborers are the foundations of a
community. The strength, the virtue,
the civilization of a community must
be measured by the condition of its la
borers, and not by the polish on. its
surface.
The whole structure of society con
formed to these respective foundations.
The North put honor upon Us labor
ers; they were trained in common
schools; they became reading and re
flecting men; shrewdness, penetration,
forecast, personal independence, fertile
resource, marked the industrial clas
ses. Grow as rapidly as the educated
and the wealthy might, the distance
between them and the laborer constant
ly diminished. There never was a
time when the bottom of society was
so near the top as now.
The South, making labor a disgrace
ful necessity, denying it education,
compelling it not by those motives
which are obtained healthfully to de
velop the man, but by the overseer’s
eye and lash, and educating only her
wealthy sons, has steadily widened th?
distance between the top and bottom
of society. Nothing can be more dis
similar than the tone and sentiment of
societies so diversely*formed. Liberty
is a universal right—it belongs to men
on the one side; it is a privilege, and
belongs to a class, on the other side.
The North binds society together,
identifies its interests, equalizes and
kneads i:, causing it to grow alike
throughout, and makes it strong by the
strength of its individuals, and gives to
individuals the advantage of common
weal. There cannot be a common
wealth of Slavery. It is class-wealth.
The South hopelessly divides society;
puts her honors on oue side of the
cleft, her menial offices on the other.
The North compacts and the South
stratifies. To educate the laborer is
to do the whole Stale a benefit, in the
North; to educate the laborer is to
strike at the foundations of society in
the South. We send educators to the
Governor’s chair and to Congress.
They of the South send them to the
penitentiary and the gibbet.
Now, does any man doubt that here
are the real, vital, distinguishing ele
ments of two radically different gov
ernments—an Aristocracy and a De
mocracy? Does any one believe it
possible that these respective tenden
cies should be confined, fn the re
spective fields, to civil affairs? Will
they not determine the family institu
tions, the usages of society, public
opinion, yea, the whole and very na
ture of communities? Can the agri
culture of slaves and slavery and the
agriculture of freemen be the same?
Can the commercial interests be the
same; the political economy and the
politics? Can statesmen bred in such
schools have common sympathies?
That the North and South have many
wants and many sympathies in common
it is as trua as that all men, the most
opposite, oppressor and oppressed,
deceiver and dupe, have great wants
in common. But in their foundation
ideas, their political doctrines, their
State policies, their conceptions of pub
lic measures, they are not only dif
ferent, but, for the most part, opposite
and oppugnant. States, so essentially
different, would find harmony rather in
separate existence, than in federation.
Yet our Union is composed of these op
j positions.
When the Constitution was in birth,
these things were in the seed. Yet,
even then, the repellencies were such
that a common Constitution was adop
ted only by compromise. Now, if the
compromises of the Constitution in the
matter of Slavery were adopted, in the
expectation that Slavery would soon be
eradicated by the superior vitality ol
Liberty, we can understand the wisdoix
of the intention at least But if it wai
designed that one instrument should in*
close the spirit of two theories of gov*
ernment so totally adverse, it was the
most extraordinary blindness, the mosi
anomalous folly which honest met
were ever smitten with! We shoult
as soon look for an agreement by whicl
Christ and Belial should jointly under
take to govern this world! Was i
thought possible to serve both Libert]
and Slavery—God and Mammon:
Could the same mouth breaths justice
and injustice? Could a Constitutioi
having any definite nature, have twi
hearts, one beating for liberty, with vi
i talized blood, and the other beating fo
slavery with black blood? Could i
organize courts empowered to esUb
lish justice and systematic oppression
—courts, “with one hand to lift up thi
wronged by speedy redress, and to baa
down the wronged with the other b;
triple blows? We believe that thi
compromises of the Constitution look
•d to the destruction of Slavery no
not its establishment.
The event justified the judgement
Although incidental causes conspire
to give slavery new growth, while
our country was swelling and coming
into manbnod, yet it soon became ap
parent that both systems could not long
coexist.
There are good and easy souls,
not perturbed by over deep meditation
posingP?hat our institutions a*re the ag
itators, our civil polity is the
fanatic whose firebrands inflame the
Union. This movement of the spirit ol
the age has made the men, not the
men it. We are its children. W T hile
the North and the South inveigh against
each other,and fanatics are loud mouth
ed against fanatics, calmer and deeper
men see that both North and South are
drifting, and fighting as they drift, in a
current whose secret springs lie deepet
than men’s volitions; whose force God
both ordained and will augment, until
old things are passed away, and he
whose right it is shall reign. Why
then should we try to stop the contest?
It must come to an issue, which spirit
shall animate our Constitution. The
spirit of Bondage and the spirit of L b
erty, when both are living spirits, can
not dwell together. Moses’ rod must
swallow the enchanter’s, or the magi
cian’s rod must swallow the prophet’s.'
The South have found out that slavery
cannot live and stand still. Liberty
grows the fastest; has the best roots;
eats out the other; and if slavery is
stationary it will be speedily overrun
and smothe en ’»y the rampant vine ol
freedom. It must thrust out its roots;
it must borrow vigor from fresh soil.
Southern men are perfectly cons stent
in rejecting a compromise which only
confirms old rights, but positively
grants no extension.
The South now demands room and
right for extension. She asks the
North to be a partner. For every Free
State she demands one State for Slave
ry. One dark orb must be swung into
its orbit to groan and travail in pain,
for every new orb of liberty over which
the morning stars shall sing for joy.
On that question we hold there can
be no Compromise. The Constitution
has come to a period of final Construc
tion. Every year’s delay will aggra
vate difficulties: an earlier day had been
better than this; but this is better than
any future day. It is time for good
men and true to gird up their loins and
staed forth for God and tor Humanity.
No Compromises can nelp us which
dodge the question; certainly none
which settle it for Slavery. We are
told the question is momentous and be
set with the most serious difficulties.
Neither in the afiairs of individuals nor
of nations is there any difficulty when
men are willing to do right. It is
when Right is spun to so fine a thread
that it floats like a gossamer, chan
ging to every breath, that we lose
sight of it or find it entangled in our
hands. There never was a plainer
question for the North. It is her duty
openly, firmly, and forever to refuse to
Slavery another inch of territory, and
to see to it that it never gets it by fraud.
It is her duty to refuse her band or
countenance to Slavery where it now
exists- It is her duty to declare that
she will uqder no'considerations be a
party te any further inhumanity and in
justice. Then the path will be plain and
straight. The path of Duty, though a
steep one, and often toilsome, is al
ways straight and plain. Those are the
labyrinthine roads, which, winding
through sloughs and thickets, imboak
ed and dark, seek to find a way around
the rocks and steeps, and come to the
gate o. Success, without climbiog the
hill of Difficulty.
Mr. Clay’s compromise resolutions
demand better provision for the re
covery of fugitive slaves; and a bill is
now pending in the United States Sen
ate for this purpose. We cannot
strongly enough express our profound
regret at the remarks which Mr. Clay
felt it his duty to make on this subject.
On this matter, our feelings 4tre so
strong that we confess a liability to in
temperance of expression.
If the compromises of the Constitu
tion include requisitions which vio
late Humanity, I will not be bound by
them. Not even the Constitution shall
make me unjust. If my patriotic
sires confederate in my behalf that I
should maintain that instrument, so I
will, to the utmost bounds of Right.
But who, with power which even God
denies to Himself, shall by compact
foreordain me to the commission of in
humanity and injustice? I disown the
act. I repudiate the obligation. Never
while I have breath will 1 help any of
ficial miscreant in his base errand ol
recapturing a fellow man for bondage.
And may my foot palsy, and my right
hand forget her cunning, if I ever be*
come so untrue to mercy and to re*
ligion as not, by all the means in my
power, to give aid and succor to every
man whose courageous flight tells me
that he is worthy of liberty! If asked,
what then becomes of the Constitution,!
reply by asking what becomes of God’s
Constitution of Humanity, if you give
back a slave to the remorseless maw ol
servitude? I put Constitution against
Constitution—God’s against roan’s.
Where they agree they are doubly sa
cred. Where they differ my reply to
1 all questioners—but especially to all
Christian scruples, is in the language of
Peter: Whether if be right, in the sight
of God, to hearken unto you, more than
unto God, judge ye!
Ought not Christians, by all the
I means in their power, to preserve the
Union't Yee, by all means that are
right! But, dear aa the Union is, and
I ought to bo, whenever it comes bo-
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH l(j, 1850.
tween a Christian people and their
Christian integrity it becomes a snare.
The very value of our Union is to be
found in those principles of justice, lib
erty aud humanity which inspire it*
But if by any infernal joggle these
pHftciptes must be yielded up )o pre
serve the Union, then a 'Wrpse* only
srffi be left in our arms, deflowered,
lifeless, worthless. A Union perpetu
ated by giving way to injustice a
Union maintained by obedience to the
desires of Slavery—is hut a compact
of violence. We emphasize these
things because the long-continued cries
of politicians have produced among so
ber Christian men an unquestioned and
undistur6ed conviction that no evil can
be so great ns the dissolution of our
Union. Their are many evils infinite
ly greater. The loss of public humanity
is greater. The loss of national consci
ence is greater. An indifference to the
condition of millions of miserable crea
tures, whose degradation, vices, igno
rance aud animalism plead with our
conscience in their behalf; this would
be an unspeakably greater evil. So
long as we can maintain the Union on
terms which allow us to act with a free
conscience, with humanity unviolated,
we shall count no sacrifice dear to
maintain it. But religion and human
ity are a price too dear to pay even for
the Uni
.Our Southern brethren often com
plain that we don’t understand their
condition, or sympathise with their
real difficulties. Even so, too, we
complain that they do not understand
our situation, and sympathise with our
difficulties. There are hundreds and
thousands of men, to whom conscience
is a law—a law, notwithstanding the
sneers of those who flout at the idea of
a conscience party. But there is a con
science party! There is a stern and
growing feeling in the Free States,
not yet expressed by any distinctive
organization, that the time has come
for a stand against any further national
inhumanity. We can bear much, but
we eannot and will not bear the guilt
of Slavery. We regard it as epitom
izing every offense which man can
commit against man. It takes liberty
from those to whom God gave it, as
tho right of all rights. It forbids all
food either for the understanding or
the heart. It takes ail honesty from
the conscience. It takes its defense
from virtue, and gives all authority
into the hands of lustful or pecuniary
cupidity. It scorns the family, and in
vades it whenever desire or the want
of money prevails, witli the same cool
ness with which a drover singles out a
heifer, or a butcher strikes down a
a bullock. These are not the accidents
of Slavery. They are its legitimate
fruits. They are its vitality. If you
stop these evils, you will destroy the
system. Let the slave be taught. Let
him have, not a filtered and adulterated
gospel, but that gospel which angels
heralded, strangely filling the air with
the cry, Peace on earth and good-will
toicard men! and it will make the slaves
what it made the barbarous Briton and
the rude Saxon—freemen and refined
Christians. Take from Slavery its
rights of merchandise, forbid the dis
ruption of families, the sale of slaves
from the homestead where they were'
born, and the system will stink in the
nostrils of planters, as it now does in
our own.
Now we declare, that into a fellow
ship with these monstrous evils, whose
perpetration around our whole South
ern coast is enough to pre-occupy the
heavenly tribunal of mercy, and to ex
haust its patience on only this form of
ail the world-wide human suffering, we
have been drawn unwittingly. We did
not know, or did not think, that to
swear fealty to the Constitution, was
to swear preservation fo Slavery. We
had always understood that the com
promises of the Constitution were
agreed upon in the North, only that
time might be given for Slavery to die
out. But if another construction be
made, and becomes the settled reading
of that instrument; if the North is to
have the guilt, and the South the pro
fits of Slavery; if we are henceforth
to understand that Slavery is federal
and national, recognised in the all-em
bracing Constitution, then but one
course is left us. No earthly consi
deration shall make us partners in this
monstrosity. We most solemnly de
clare, by our belief in humanity, by
our hopes in religion, by our faith in
Christ, that we we will cut every cord
of oppression whose force is derived
from us. And if, in so doing, men
choose to interpose the Constitution,
upon their heads be the blame. Pal
sied be that hand, and blasted those
lips, which shall make our Constitution,
ordained for freedom, the instrument
of bondage and cruelty!
We shall study to circumscribe sla
very where it now exists. We shall
be hostile to every measure which con
sults its interests. We shall not cease
to stand upon the brink of this dismal
abyss, and over against its smoke and
wails to pray with agonizing earnest
ness, How long, O Lord, how long?”
A day will come—in God’s counsels it
is already seen advancing —when men
will look back''upon this system as we
now look upon the dungeons and tri
bunals of the Inquisition. In that day
many a man will deny his parentage,
and forswear the ancestors who either
forged fetters for the slave, or more
meanly blew the bellows for those who
wrought at the anvil of oppression.
May my children, to the latest genera
tion, in looking back to my example,
take courage, and strike home for li
berty and humanity!
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
With these views, no soothsayer is
needed to interpret our views of the
extension of Slavery: (t is not enough
that we do not will it. Every man
consents to it, who docs not exhaust
bis strength in endeavoring to preventit.
Ner do we misunderstand the cun
ning- tty of those wl» ask es to tww
the* issues or this tfutStlon fn new ter
ritories to chance. Now-a-days, chance
has too many wires and wire-workers
to suit our ideas of luck. Chance is
the merest gambler. The dice are
loaded. The cards are marked. Only
the victim dreams that there is fair
play. The South is to deal; the North
is to take what cards are flirted to its
hand. Who doubts the issue? How
many more games than those already
played are needed before the dupe
shall suspect foul play? No: by as
much as Liberty is dearer to us than
Slavery, by so much should we be
more active in its behalf than its ad
versaries are in behalf of Slavery! If
they can toil day and night, dig deep
trenches, bear burdens cheerfully to
sink the rocky foundations for the
towers of Oppression, shall we have
no bulwarks and no towers for Liberty
W’henever and wherever a blow is
struck for Slavery, then and there must
be a double stroke for Liberty!
We will compromise any measure
tending to prevent the extension of
Slavery. We will compromise as to
the particulars of its death, laying out
and burial. But every compromise
must include the advantage of Liberty
and the disadvantage of Slavery.
Compromises dictated by wily politi
cians, made to serve a pinch in party
tactics; compromises issuing from men
whose ideas ot patriotism are summed
up in giving their adversaries a grip
and downfall, to whom spoils are vir
tues and offices religion; or those bet
ter-intended compromises, like Mr.
Clay’s, which seek for peace, rather
than for humanity; from such compro
mises, guileless as they seem, and gild
ed till they shine like Heaven, ever
more may we be delivered!
We shall abide by the Union. No
Vandal outrage shall our hands com
mit. We shall honor it by obedient
lives, consecrate it by our prayers,
purify it from the dross of injustice,
and give to it such foundations of Right
as shall hold it steadfast amid all the
revolutionary concussions or our day.
If there be those who cannot abide the
Union, because it is pure and religious,
just and humane, let them beware of
that tumultuous sea into which they
purpose to leap.
Bifjt we do not believe that such an
issue awaits us. The pliancy of mis
erable scramblers for political prefer
ment has caused these violent gusts.
Thus, hitherto, have victories been
gained for Slavery. Thus they are
sought again. Firmness is the remedy
for threats. If good men, having good
representatives, are but firm, the storm
will beat the stout oak, and rage like a
demon through its twisted branches,
but pass on and spend itself in the wil
derness; meanwhile the returning sun
shall find the noble tree unwrecked
and fast-rooted.
But if our Charter Oak is to be dis
membered, God be thanked that its
roots were planted in the soil of Free
dom. There they will spread; its
trunk and its mightiest branches will
abide. The sun and the soil that nour
ished its infancy yet remain to repair
what time and storms may mutilate.
Beneath its shadow the poor and op
pressed shall find shelter.
From the Liberator.
SHALL WE COMPROMISE!
The article we have copied from the
New York Independent, with this title,
is said to have been written by Henry
Ward Beecher, one of the strong
men of the nation, lull of vital moral
energy, with great power of expres
sion, and distinguished for his courage
and independence. A perusal of it
will make the heart of the reader bound,
and his pulse quicken its motion. It is
a strong testimony against compromis
ing with iniquity, and a sublime attesta
tion to the supremacy of Justice and
Right over all other considerations.
We wish it might fall into the hands ol
every citizen, and be read to every
household. It meets the crisis in the
true spirit of Christian heroism. How
noble are these words!
'lf the compromises ofthe Constitu
tion include requisitions which violate
Humanity, 1 will not be bound by
them. Aof even the Constitution shall
make me unjust. Who, with power
which even God denies to Himself, shall
by compact foreordain me to the com
mission of inhumanity and injustice? I
disown the act. I repudiate the obli
gation. I put Constitution against
Constitution—God’s against man’s.’
This is the lepetition of apostolic
speech and example, and it is precisely
the ground occupied by those who re
fuse any longer to be in religious and
political fellowship with slaveholders,
for that fellowship requires sanction
and co-operation in perpetuating the
sum of all villanies.'
We are not wholly satisfied,however,
with this article. We cannot give, as
it does, ‘Mr. Clay sincere praise for de
siring peace’—for he wants it at the
expence of purity, justice and honor.
Nor can we applaud him for the de
claration, that l he would never vote for
the extension of slavery,’ in view ofthe
fact that he is an incorrigible slavehol
der and the author of the Missouri
Compromise, and that he trying to
debase the moral tone of the North still
pr«-
iffißfflmyßfoi y nlin n T v ktU' tiLii&A'iJ til if
tice nullifies his profession. Nor canj
we laud him as the 'revered sage of
Ashland/ for we regard him as a far
more dangerous man to the cause of
human liberty than even John C. Cal
houn. Nor can we subscribe to senti
ments like these:-
-vre susw awmv t»y emw. «o
vandal outrage shall otir hands commit,
We shall honor it by obedient lives,
consecrate it by our prayers, purity it
from the dross of injustice, and give to
it such foundations of- Right as shall
hold it steadfast amid all the revolution
ary concussions of our day. If there
be those who cannot abide the Union
because it is pure and religious, just
and humane, let them beware of
that tumultuous sea into which they pur
pose to leap.’
Now, one of the provisions of the
Constitution is, the restoration of fugi
tive slaves; and yet Mr. Beecher says,
'May my foot palsy, and my right hand
forget her cunning, if I ever become so
untrue to mercy and to religion as not,
by all means in my power, to give aid
and succor to every man whose cour
ageous flight tells me that he is worthy
of liberty!’ Nobly uttered—but is
this to ‘abide by the Union’? Is it to
keep good faith with the Sonth It is
not.
From the MauachuseMs Spy.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
GOVERNOR.
The following -Message was trans
mitted by Gov. Briggs to the House of
Representatives in connection with
resolutions of tke State of Virginia
respecting Slavery. It breathes a firm
and true spirit, and is worthy of com
mendation:
To the House of Representatives :—l
have received from the Governor of
the State of Virginia, and herewith
transmit to you, the Resolutions of the
eneral Assembly of that Common
wealth on the *‘Wilmot Proviso and
kindred subjects.”
The sentiments and tone of these
resolutions, coming from the Legisla
ture of an ancient and honored sister
Commonwealth, are well calculated to
fill the mind with sadness. The pur
pose avowed by the people of the free
States, of arresting the further exten
sion of slavery, has produced a high
state of excitement among our fellow
citizens of the slave States. They
charge the North with being unfriend
ly to their interest, and with making
aggressions upou their rights. If the
charge is well founded it is well cal
culated to produce excitement. Though
other things enter into the contest, the
main point in issue is, whether slavery
shall be extended into territories be
longing to the United States which are
now free. In this unfortunate section
al question it would be well for each
party to consider that the other has
rights. The policy of excluding slave
ry from the territories of the Union
originated in Virginia, and was sup
ported by the unanimous vote of four
other Southern States. Now the Leg*
islature ot Virginia more than intimates
that the Union cannot survive the re
assertion and continuance of this policy.
The South claim the right of going
into any of the public territories with
Lhetr property, and say that the exclu
sion of slavery will exclude the people
of the slaveholding States from those
territories. Suppose this to be true—
it is equally true that with the opinions
which the people of the free States en
tertain, Upon the moral and social
character of this institution of slavery,
and the incompatibility of free and
slave labor existing together, they are
as effectually excluded from the terri
tories and States where this institutison
exists. It is a generally conceded his
torical fact, that at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution, when
there were six slave and seven free
States, the further extension of slave
ry was not expected hy the people in
any section of the country. The ninth
Section of the first Article of the Con
stitution of the United States provides
that—“ The immigration or importation
of such persons as any of the States
now existing shall think proper to ad
mit, shall not be prohibited by Con
gress prior to the year 1806.” Whilst
by this article Congress had no right
to prohibit the introduction of slaves
from abroad into any 6f the States
then existing, prior to ISDB, it had the
power to do so as to new States which
might be admitted after the adoption of
the Constitution.
By the ordinance of 1787—two years
before the adoption of the Constitu
tion —the Congress of the confedera
tion had provided for the formation of
not less than three, nor more than five
new Stntes, in the territory north-west
of the Ohio, from the whole of which
they bad by that ordinance excluded
slavery.
Since the adoption of the Constitu
tion, nine new slave states have been
admitted into this Union, and five of
them formed out of territory which has
been acquired subsequent to that
event. Mr. Jefferson and other lead
ing statesmen, believed and declared
that there was no constitutional power
in the government to acquire foreign
territory. Jh
Texas and the territory ceded by
Mexico, have been added to the United
States,against the most earnest remon
strances of a great majority of the
people of the free States, accompanied
by the declaration, that if acquired the
North would never consent to the ex
tension of slavery over any part ol
such territory. With aid received
from the North to accomplish their ob
ject, the South, by Congressional Ra-
JOHN DICI, Print,.
WHOLE NO. lie;
volutions and by conquest, succeeded
in gaining Texas and a targe extent of
territory from distracted and bleeding
Mexico.
With all these facts before the
world, the slaveholding States, —with
language as harsh as the charge is un
jow,—-now nccuik me ifurtn Jt me de
liberate purpose of violating their
rights. With ten Senators in the Con
gress of the United States, represent
ing live States carved out of newly ac
quired territory, they insist upon the
privilege of extending the institution
over other territory which is now free,
and failing to do this, they threaten to
secede from the Union. The opinion
as to the constitutionality and proprie
ty of arresting the further extension of
slavery, is as nearly unanimous among
the people of the free States, as that
upon any other important propoaitipn
which can be named. They believe
slavery to be morally wrong, and that
such a restriction would be no invasion
oi the rights of any individual, or
State, but that it is necessary to arrest
an aggressien upon the rights of the
people of the free States which has
been in progress for half a century.
The position which Massachusetts has
assumed,upon this subject, she believes
to be impregnable, and that carrying it
out would do no wrong to any Other
State. Let her then, while she will
obey the Constitution of the United
States and observe all its guaranties
in her attitude of opposition to the
further extension of slavery, be reso.
lute and immoveable.
Masssachusetts and Virginia were
co-workers together in that revolution
which made the Thirteen United Colo
nies free and independent States. They
went hand in hand in framing and
adopting the Constitution which ce
mented that glorious Union. The dif
ference of opinion which now divides
them upon the agitating subject of the
day is deeply to be deplored. I trust
that no possible state ofthipgs will lead
the people of the government of Mas
achusetts to forget the respect and
courtesy which is due to that of any
other sister Commonwealth, or to use
towards them language of reproach or
denunciation.
One of the resolutions of her Legit
tore herewith communicated, declares
that “no State has done so much to
form the Union” aa she has done.
Heaven grant that the future historian
may not be compelled to write that
Virginia too by her acts or her influ
ence, did more to dash that Union to
atoms than any other State. Mournful
indeed would be the catastophe of dis
solution; bat doubly mournful would
it be for the same historian to have to
add, that the reason why this ancient
Commonwealth —the mother of Presi
dents—lent her aid to break up the
Union with her sister States, among
whom were the companions
struggles and her triumphs in the
cause of freedom, was because those
companions would not consent to ex
tend the area of slavery—an institu
tion, the existence of which made her
own Jefferson say that “he trembled
for his country when he remembered
that God was just,”
GEORGE. N. BRIGGS
Diamond Dust. —The friendships of
the world are often confederacies in
vice or leagues of pleasure. Life is
the hyphen between matter and spirit.
A breaking wave is the only thing in
nature which is most beautiful in the
moment of its dissolution. The fetters
of rhyme are no more than a bracelet
to the true poet. As well pass a kalei
doscope from hand to hand, and expect
no trembling touch will alter its aspect,
as to think to hear a story from mouth
to mouth literally and accurately re
peated. When hearta are filled with
holy affections, and home is happy,
then do the young dwell ia a charmed
circle, which only the naturally de
praved would seek to quit* and across
which boundary temptations to error
shine out but feebly. Eliza Cook's
Journal.
A London Foo. —A London fog can
not be described. To be appreciated
it must be seen, or rather felt; for it is
altogether impossible to be slear and
lucid on such a subject. It is the only
thing which gives you an idea of wbat
Milton meant when he talked of dark
ness visible. is a kind of light,
to be aura, but it bnly serves as a me
dium for a series of optical illusions;
and for all useful purposes of vision,
the deepest darkness that ever fell from
the heavens is infinitely preferable.
A man perceives a coach a dozen
yards off, and a single stride brings
him among the horses’ feet, —he sees
a gas-light faintly glimmering (as be
thinks) at a distance, but scarcely has
he advanced a step or two towards it,
when he becomes convinced of its ac-
tual station by finding his head rattling
against the post; andas for attempting
if you get once mystified, to distinguish
one street from another, it is ridiculous
to think of such a thing.
The Disunion Convention.—lt be
gins to be very probable that (he Dis
union Convention to be held at Nash
ville, will not have many delegates ac-
credited by the Legislatures of States.
The delegates from Alabama have no
official legislative authority, for there
was no act pasted to appoint them* The
Legislatures of Tennessee end Ken
tucky have set their faces against the
treasonable movement, and Louisiana
i has not only receded from the position
rashly taken, but has .declared herself
opposed to all revolutionary movements.Mr. Carlyle end the W. I. Negro
Question.
Mr. Carlyle is a wonderful man; Mr. Car
lyle is a queer man; Mr. Carlyle is a genius
Few men of the present age hare influenced
more minds, of a certain class, than has he.
But with all his strength,—and he is a strong
man, also, —he is weak; and, unlike Paul,
wLen he is strongest, he is wont to be most
weak. His boldest and most powerful com
positions are those weie the Christian mind
may discover most of Bophistry.
He raises himself in mid-air, by balloon
agency, and looks down upon ns mortals from
Si giddy .height, and when he sees oih
in earnest —at work—it matters little upon
what, or for what end, so that it be not abso
lutely infernal in sight of gods and men, he
dubs him a Hero. In a word, Mr. C. looks
at men and things from his own, and not from
a Christian point of sight; and this is emi
nently the case in his article on the Negro
Question, in the last number of Fraser’i
Magazine.
No one will dissent from the position which
not wily now, but ever—to his credit be i'
said—Mr. C. has maintained, namely,that la
bor is the duty of every man that by laboi
is man to be more blessed upon earth. But
for whom shall man labor 1 To what end
The Scripture injunction is, to love thy neigh
bor as thyself; ana 1 think Mr. C. woutn
find it difficult to show, by sqy theory ot
ethics, however sublimated, that man i
bound to labor for the sole purpose of main
taining others in idleness; or, knowing this,
yet not instructed in the true relation mai
should bear to his fellow, he can be helc
accountable for refusing to work, beyon<
what will supply his wants, though thes.
wants may not extend farther than most ‘de
testable pumpkin.’ He may point to Hayt
forever, as an argument in favor of his the
•ry, that the black is unfitted for self-gov
•rnmant: i. e., when placed under like favor
able eireumstancea with the white for educa
tion and development. We would ask hin
to remember that even Heyti produced, t
Hfn*i and Tooasaint L’Ouverture— whicl
last, wise, self-governing white men mus
basely murdered; that we have a quondan
slave (or Quashee, if he will,) —to name n»
more—one Frederick Douglass, amongst us
the like of whom may rise up in Jamaica anc
Antigua, to govern Englishmen; at least, t<
cause the soil to produce, for their own good
cane that shall not rot; ‘celestial apices,’ too
which—and the English are able—they mat
purchase of Quashee, he, meanwhile, scorn
ing and repudiating ‘most beneficent whip.
In our estimation, Mr. Carlyle—as wt
said at the outset —has taken a false view o
the whole matter. His argument amounts t<
this: Might makes right; it is the right of the
sit pug to govern the week. The Saxon
British is stronger and wiser than the black
of the West Indies, and in consequence, maj
compel, by force of aims, his black neigliboi
to do hie bidding: and this is the Eternal Pur
pose and Supreme Will’!
The question, however, has been stated
fairly enough; but, alas (or the a go—the agt
of progress— if by such means as Mr. Crrlyli
indicates, it ia to be answered. What art
the true relations between negro and white
their mutual duties under the sight of the Ma
ker oj than both*
I donot intend to attempt, in this article, a
solution oftbia great piobiem; though, to one
extent, et least, I deem it not incapable o!
solution, it ia not to be despatched in a
word, even so far as relates to the present
juncture; or a brief sentence, though that
sentence be uttered by Thomas Carlyle.
Undoubtedly, it would be for the present ben
efit of Britain, but ‘fair’ we deny it to be, to
compel 4 Quashee to work for the f mere] priv
ilege to grow pumpkins.
The white man cannot work; but if he can
not work, is it not a question worth resolving
m one's mind, whether he has a right to
eat, within the tropics? is there not some
shadow of a reason for belief, that the ‘Su
preme Will’ eternally purposed that the
tropics should be the separate abiding place
of the black man?
May it not be worthy our consideration,
sad the consideration of the Anglo-British,
wbat is our duty, under God—what is ‘fair
and just’ towards the b.ack man? How far
is it our duty, as the wiser and the stronger,
to instruct and elevate the weaker race, and
place them in a condition sufficiently analo
gous to our own, so that it shall be ‘possible
for white men to live beside black men,’ on
t-rwn that shall meet the approval of God and
mu!
The problem is not ‘how white men shall
command black men;’ there is not and cannot
ba aoy just manner’ in such a state as this
question indicates; nor is it ‘how West India
fruitfulness can be produced,’ for the purpose
of maintaining the pampered laziness of West
India planters. West India should, indeed,
be made fruitful. The world needs her su
gar, hei coffee, aud ‘celestial apices,’ and in
yod’a own time they shall be produced, doubt
it not; ano it may be, aa suggested by Mr.
Carlyle, through Brother Jonathan.
We have not yet brought out all our Doug*
lasses; and if Jamaica can produce none
from her black population, we can spare them
quite a number for schoolmasters, attorneys,
physicians, judges* a President, and makers
Constitutions. Our peculiar domestic in
stitution ia fast leading towards dissolution;
and it may be, doubtless will be found, that
there is many a sable son of America who
bee imbibed, or inherited by direct patents
desoent, something of the spirit of liberty, if
not of ehivairy which they may turn to good
Meount. It may be from such ‘gods’ that
Britain may hear the voice, ‘bidding you ig
nominioualy depart! ye quack-ridden, incom
petent.
If the English planter cannot get his cane
cut end hia sugar manufactured, let him for
bear the ‘attempt to overrun the present pop
ulation by African importation—the folly of
which Mr. C. has set forth with equal power
sad clearness and in the spirit of justice and
wh*t is fair,’ let him make it an object for
De ro lo by the inducements, as
■under the same circumstances, he would hold
•ot to his whi e brethren, and year by year
by your release, for fair consideration, what
every day bocoming leas and leas valuable
to him, and which in the end—so God or
dains—he will be obliged to rriease wiihou
cooaideration; more especially if by most ben
encent whip there shall be an attempt to
forte his pumpkin-loving brother to labor.
’Slaves again’ assuredly they will not be;
and let English arms essay to make them so
and Jamaica ground will again be manured
with the bones and blood of many thousand
British men,’ with their Cromwells, Scd
wicks, Foiteacues, Braynes and Blakea.
She should indeed find, to her cost, that he
that will not work[in W. I.] shall perish from
fW. I.]—and the patience of the gods hat
Barits. A simple affair it may be, indeed,
but aa frightful, believe it, as simple. ‘Cant,
whether ’roee-pink' or ol whatever color, will
then find its place: no matter if it proceed
frem terrestrial parliament or Mr. Carlyle, it
will* ‘down to Onus; and* conditions of grow
ing pumpkins be definitly settled—perhaps in
tether a terrible manner.’— Liberator.
Fllgiuia Chivalry—Doughfaces Rebuked
by a Whig.
Washington, Feb. 96, 1850.
filil Jstk ,oc *AT:—Since the speech of
Thaddeus Steven**'. of Pennsylvania, and Bis
■•U, of Illinois, the CiV.’ T *lry pf Virginia hare
net manifested so much lnro'ulence end bius-
Ul anticipated. We have had hut
e l *P e e l Bora that quarter during (he past
week that of Mtllaoa—and be brokv* down
without even showing hia teeth.—These ra*n*
sent fellows seem aa tame now as donkeys.
They cannot well recover from the excoriating
attack upon their chivalry of to longstanding,
made by Stevena and Biseell.
In connection with Clinguvan and others,
they bad made threat! of occupying this dis
trict of territory themselves in oase of dissolu
tion, and of driving Northern Representatives
M*. Biseell told them that he did not dtubt
heir courage; he had heard much of their Ho
le chivalry. In 1814, a British fleet came
leisurely up the Potomac, anchored off the
city and landed troops, who prowled about
here some ten days, set the Capitol «o fire,
and left its smouldering rums as a monument
to the braveryof the panie-striekeo inhabitants.
No doubt, said Mr. 8., yon are full as brave
now as you were then; your eternal clamor
about Soui hern chivalry would indicate that
you were.
In noticing the doughfaces, Mr. Stevena
said—“ But we are told that it is none of our
businees—that Southern slavery is a matter
between slaveholders andtheir own conciencee.
I trust, sir, it may be ao decided by impartial
history, and the unerring Judge, that we may
not be branded with that great stigma, and
that grievous burden may not weigh upon our
souls. But could we hope for that justifica
tion, if now, when we have the power to pre
vent it, we should permit this evil to spread
over thousands of square leagues now free,and
settle upon unborn millions? Sir, for myself,
I should look upon any Northern man enlight
ened by a Northern education, w ho would.di
rectly or indirectly, by omission or commis
sion, bv baaely voting or cowardly skulking,
[turning full upon Mr. Winthrop] peimit it to
spread over one rood of God’s free earth, as a
traitor to Liberty and recreant to hia God.”
Mr.fi. uli tk« tW tk«w
threats hid been effectual in procuring“doagh*
faces sufficient to be their tools to do their
work.” He had hoped that the race of dough
faces had uearly become extinct. They were
an unmanly, an unvirile race, incapable, ac
cording to the laws of nature, of reproduction.
Winthrop felt this merited rebuke keenly,
and he poured out the full vials ot his wrath
upon Freeaoilera on Tuesday. He was too
cowardly, howevet, to answer Mr. S., but
submitted to his castigation as quietly as Ba
laam’s ass did to the cudgeling.
Yours, CATO.
Cleveland True Democrat.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, MARCH 15, 1850.
The North Star if sometimes sent to friends
who do not take the paper, in tl>e hope that they
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions and
donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N. Y.
OCJ-Wahted —Several Travelling Aoests,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Notice,
An Ami-Slayery Convention composed of
all persona, and parties, favoring the Anti-
Slavery cause, will be holden in West Bloom
field, on Tuesday and Wednesday, March
19th and 20th.
F. Douglass. S, D. Porter. Eaq.G. W.
Clark, of Rochester, M. W. Gibbs, and C.
L. Remond, are expected to be present.
Let the present crisis in the affairs of our
country, produced by Slavery, bring thou
sands together, whoso expression shall be
heard and regarded throughout the Slaver hold
ing dominion. Homes and hearts will be
open to all who attend from a distance.
North Star Fair ia Neyv ¥orjt.
New York, Feb. 23, 1850.
Dear Sir: The ladies of New York, anx
ious for the Emancipation of their oppressed
race, and being well assured that an organ
through which to make known their grie
vances and plead for ifceir redress ia necessa
ry; feeling convinced that the “Nor«b Star”
from the very able manner ip which it is con
ducted, and its wide circulation, it one of the
most efficient instrumentalities for the accom
plishment of that end, purpose emulating the
noble example of their sisters in Philadelphia,
by holding a Fair for the benefit of said pa
per, during the anniversary week in May nest,
and have formed an Association for the fur
therance of that object.
You would confer a favor on the ladies by
making known their intention through the
columns of your valuable paper, by soliciting
for them the aid of all who srs friendly to
their object, and by receiving for, and for
warding to them all contributions which may
be obtained from your section of country.
Very respectfully yours,
FANNY TOMPKINS, Secy
We have received, from the Executive
Committee of the Western New York Anti-
Slavery Society, the sum of Eighty Dollar*;
Fifty Dollars being donation, and Jhirty
Dollars in payment for copies of the North
Star, to be gratuitously distributed by that
Society. The above sum is a part of the
proceeds of the Fnir held in this city, on the
23d of January last. With this acknow
ledgment we beg to return to tbe Committee
our sincere thanks.—r. o.
Rochester, March 7th, 1850.
Frederick Douglass Six, —A meeting
of the Committee of Arrangements of the
Liberty Fest.val, was held this'morning, for
the purpose of making a distribution of tbe
nett ptoceeds of said Festival, held for the
cause of Liberty. It waa unanimously re
solved, that the Committee give to F. Doug
for the benefit of tbe Nosth
Star and to Messrs. Remond and Gibbe
Id, f° r their very efficient labors in ad
vocating the cause of the bleeding slave.
R. Francis J. P Morris,
Cspt. Thirll, J. Jackson,
H. Scott, T. Butler,
R- Jackson,
Committee of Arrangements.
W e gratefully acknowledge tbe generous
donation so promptly tendered by our friends
the Committee of Arrangemente. The
Festival was, in many respects, an interest
ing occasion. A large number were present
from Rochester and tbe adjacent places; the
music, under the management of Messrs.
Jackson and Holmes, was admirable; the
supper was well served the eprab of Mr.
Remond was one of tbe moat eloquent tbai
we ever heard him make, and it produced i
moat favorable impression on the whole at
serablj. We receive the donation above
mentioned as sn evidence of the giowinf
iaUT. r **4 taken by our colored fotfow-ertisens
in the Nort? and in the cause k
which it is earnestly kitbfiiHjr ducted
D.
The Isadiog article, on the first page ol
l ia week’s paper, under the caption, Shall
we compromise, shoofo.be road by every sob
sertber, and eireul«ed, Ik, and wide. It j.
one ofthe best attic* which ha. appeared
during tbe controversy, on the question at
Slavery extension.— r. a.
Weekly Review ot Coefre w.
Greet speeken, rather then greet •|«eeebte,
here signalised the proceedings of
during the pest week. John C. Calhoun, tot
Sooth Caroline, and Daniel Webeter, of
Massachusetts, the former representing truly
the slavebolding spirit of his State, end the
letter aa truly misrepresenting the anti-slavery
sentiment of Massachusetts, have presented
to the Senate and the country their views ©o
the all-engrossing subject of slavery; and
neither of them, in our judgment, bea addefc
anything tending towards its final adjustment.
4 Of the two speeches, that of Mr. Calhoun,
though exceedingly defective, is the more
creditable and praiseworthy. It is plain,
straightforward and consistent, and it shows
that the object aimed at, infernal though it
be, is devoutly wiahed for by its author. But,
while it possesses these qualities, the speech
will, doubtless, dissppoiut and mortify many
of Mr. Calhoun’s friends at the South, by
the hopelessness of its spirit, the tameness
of its tone, and the ataleoess of the material
of which it is composed. On listening to its
deft very, his ultra Southern ftienda must
have felt,'ad Webster once said, under a
•light disappointment, "This is not the en
tertainment to which we were invited.”
Something brilliant and powerful was ex
pected and something dim and weak was
given.
The master-spirit of the South, the great
champion of human bondage, upon whom, ai
the present crisis, all eyes are turned, and in
whose movements the whole nation is pro
foundly interested, speaks, anj the magic
charm is broken The mighty man of ala
very ia found to be mightier iu his ailencc
than in his eloquence. While he could
thro id himself in mystery, he seemed i
giant; but—his voice heard, his views ex
pressed, his measures proposed—and he ai
once shrinks into a pale, feeble and deathly
skeleton So lifeless and powerless has thii
lion become, that even hangman Foote, the
common buffoon of the Senate, dares t<
withstand him to the face. We repeat, anc
tepeat gratefully, the tyrant power of Cal
houn in this nation, is broken; the great ob
ject of his life has been attacked by an over
whelming force and be has no arm to defeat
it. Amen! even,so let it be with all thede
fenders of slavery and oppression
We can do no mote in our present number
than give a synopsis of the most striking
features of this long lopked-for, much-dread
ed, but really harmless speech of Mr. Cal
houn.
His exordium shows that the speaker had
from the first, a clear insight Into the natur
of the yvjiole anti-rlavery movement at th<
North and that he clearly foresaw whs
would be its effect upoo the public mind, if i
were allowed to proceed. It was plain (i
him, that a thoroughly anti-slavery consci
ence, a deep conviction of the sin of slavery
pould not long rest under the restraints, no
long abide b? what are called the compre
mises of the Constitution, it was easy fo
such a mind aa hia to see the ultimate cooeiu
phrn, from the premise thea" Siam* is
sin that that granted, all things by whici
it is upheld, must fall or flourish with it; tua
war cannot be made upon slavery, withot:
also attacking the arrangements that uphoh
it; that the demand urged by William
Garrison, for a dissolution of the Union, i
simply the legitimate inference from tb<
principle that slaveholding is sin.”
In describing the dicease of, oj the eaua
of weakness to the Union, Mr. C>|houn i
far more successful than in prescribing a re
medy for iu removal. The South is diaeon
tented, alarmed and excited. Religious tie
between the North and the South, have beei
broken. Powerful and influential denofnma
tions, which once formed a strong bond o
union between the two sections, have beei
riven by the explosive force of anti-slaver
discussion. Political ties have yielded to thi
same power. The North has rapidly in
creased in population and in political strength
The equilibrium between the North and thi
South, which existed at the commencemen
of the government, has been seriously dia
turbed, and is still further threatened, by thi
restless progress of freedom; and genera
apprehension and alienation prevail. This ii
a brief description of the disease of the bod]
politic, and which, according to Mr. Calhoun
endangers the atability of the Union.
Now, tp remedy these evils, to allay dia
content, to remove unfriendly feeling, t<
dispel fears, aod to produce harmony am
union, Mr. Calhcun proposes an amendmen
of. the Constitution! Moat lame and impo
tent conclusion He must amend, or ralhei
deform the constitution of hupun nature; hi
must make wrong equal to right— cruelty
equal to kindness—and injustice equal t<
justice, in loveliness and good report amonj
men, before he can Itope to establish a per
roanent equilibrium between Slavery anc
Liberty. It ia idle for statesmen to legislate
against the anti-slavery sentiment. God hat
legislated in its favor; and, in the languagr
of Brougham, while men loathe rapine am
hate fraud, they shall reject with indignatior
the wild and guilty fantasy that man may
hold property in mw.” No Mr. Calhoun
melancholy aa the truth may be to the deaien
in human flesh, no constitutional change, nt
legislative enactment, no human oontract noi
agreement, can save the accursed ayvtem o
human bondage from the decay and death h
which God and Nature have doomed it
Within or without the Union, Slavesv musi
fall; the long-crushed negro wfitf rite,
Ethiopia must stretch ont her hands unu
God and not all the enactments of burner
codes can prevent this Heaven-ordained con
summation.
Abolitionists can desire no stronger evi
dence of the efficiency of their measures foi
the accomplishment of their object, than ii
given them in the speech of the great South
Carolinian. Hia testimony ia full, dear and
unequivocal. He has traced the movement
through iu various stages of progress; from
the time when it was spoken of with con
tempt, to the present period, when it compels
respect. We regret to eey, that be has over
estimated the number of those at the North,
who aye yoally boetile to slavery, and who
actively seeking abolition. The gen
aiM frinnA. W»Pfrpiifdy
hm a bnyever,
few and poor in pane.
under God,“the little leaven that ah an
the whole lump.”
And now to Mr. Webefa. We have read
hia speech through— a heavy task, truly:
»od we breathe more freely, since we have
ceapklri ft. Sydney Smith on** nid, that
whatever question might ihr«, as to the
uMfuioess of middle mee, U> Ue letting oat
of estates, no one coaid doubt their utility in
standing between Jeremy and the
public.” We think the same tree, as re
garda the long speeches of Webster and
Cass. They both need the services of a
faithful friend, to abridge and compress their
tedious productions, tbs' the public may not
be deterred from bestowing upou .them the
which they really merit.
*Mr. Webeter is eloquent; Mr. Webster is
grand Mr. Webster is patriotic; but neither
bis eloquence, bis grandeur nor his patriot
ism, can save this speech of liia from the
overwhelming condemnation of all liberal
and high-minded men. It was not the
speech for the oecasioo. An opportunity
was presented for the display of the orator’s
great powars, in a manner which would hare
done essential service to the cause of human
freedom, and have carried hit name down
with blessings to posterity. But he has oc
cupied his time to no good purpose. Hh
sketch of the rapid settlement of
and of the manner in which that territory'
and -New Mexico, were acquired by tfrls
Government, are familiar to all; end being,
like his hiatory of Slavery in all countiies
and ages, destitute of moral feeling, and not
even having the merit of an apparent end or
aim, need not be repeated in our columns.
His remarks, too, on the aeparation of the
Methodist Episcopal church, which divided
on the question of slavery, show that a man,
how largely soever endowed with intellect,
mav yet be wholly devoid of that higher
quality, moral integrity.
Upon this subject, Mr. Webster presents
us with a specimen of his skill, in the art ol
substituting darkness fot light, and bitter for
sweet, and of the manner in which he can
confound ignorant bigotry with uncorapromis
and intelligent fidelity to principle.
The following was, doubtless, intended as
a thrust at those Abolitionists from whom he
has received no small share of honest rebuke,
for hia inconsistent and temporising coarse on
the subject of slavery:
“They deal with morals as with mathema-
I tics, and they think what,is right, may be
distinguished from what la wrong, with the
precision of an algebraic equation. They
have, therefore none too much charity toward
others who differ with them. They are apt,
r too, to think that nothing is good but what is
perfect, and that there are no compromises
or modifications to be made in submission to
difference of opinion, or in deference 10 other
men’s judgment. If their perspicacious via
ion enables them to delect a spot on the face
of the sun, they think that a good reason
why the sun should be struck down from
5 Ifeaven. They prefer the chance of running
t into utter darkness to living in heavenly light,
t if that heavenly light be not absolutly wiih
out any imperfection. There are impatient
mens-too impatient always to give heed to
the admonition of St. Paul, “that we are not
to do evil that good may come”—too impa
r tient to wait for the slow progress of moral
causes in the improvement of mankind.
r i# il lhal raen a y not ascertain with
certainty, as to what is right, and what is
k The only reason is, that they allow
their own fancied interest to warp their judg
meois. There is no real difficulty in arriving
at right conclusions, in a case so plain as that
I of slavery for with respect to this giant sin,
I if a man’s eye be single, his whole body
may be full of light.”
s Mr. Webster refers to the state of feeling
which pervaded this country, before, and at
s the adoption of tho United States Constitu
tion; but how 1 £’or what purpose! No(
with a view to inspire the present generation
with a similar feeling. Not to kindle in the
i bosoms of the sons, a desire to carry into
practice the views and sentiments of their
ancestors, by destroying what they pronounced
f an eyil, but, sad to fay, for the low purpose
of excusing aqd palliating the freedom with
whieh the system of slavery is now denoun
ced in the southern section of the Union.
Instead of summoning the spirits of the de
parted, to aid in the defence of Liberty, he
invokes them merely to propitiate the dark
i embodiment of Slavery.
Mr. W ebster reviews the annexation of
Texas to the Union, and the motives which
I prompted its annexation and, in order to be
i faithful to the history of that transaction, lie
was compelled to charge Mr. Calhoun, aa
one of the prominent actors in it, with seek
ing, in the consummation of that measure, to
strengthen the slave interests of the country.
The New England orator here complimented
the champion of slavery for hia boldness and
manliness. This was a blunder which a man
of Mr. Webster's wit and sagacity might
have been expected to avoid; since it was
i well calculated to provoke comparisons, and
perhaps even to call forfo rebuke, that he
honored in qnother the virtue of which he
himself is moat destitute. Calhoun is open
and candid, as we have elsewhere said. He
is a statesman of whose position no doubt
need b« entertained. He uses language to
i declare, and not to conceal his sentiments
ami designs. fn thif the dark orator of the
North might well learn of Calhoun. But we
are digressing.
On the question of the exclusion of slavery
from the territories acquired from Mexico
i Mr. Webster stands, practically, upon the
1 ground of Geoetal Casa, General Taylor and
the Cabinet. The difference between them,
r (if any exist) is merely theoretical. The
i former would excuse his unfaithfulness to
Liberty, and his treachery to the North, by
demonstrating the unfitness of those coun
tries for elavery, and by solemn assurances
against foe possibility of its introduction into
those territories; and the latter would plead
foe same assumption aa an apology to slave
holders and the South, for refusing a positive
enactment for its introduction. There teems
to have been a general understanding among
foe old politicians, on this subject—a regular
combination to defeat the rising spirit of
freedom. Nothing is heard now in the Sen
ate, of foe Wilraot Proviso. Messrs. Web
ster, Clay, Casa, Bentou, Berrien, and other
leading men, have united in denouncing it,
aa anaeoeaesry, irritating and injurious,
Webster has the honor, thus far, of giving
the last slab to this youthful agent of liberty.
He etaimed 4 once as hia child, and charged
Mr. Wihaot with stealing bis thundar.” If
be hu not murdered hia own child, it baa
been from qo want of disposition so to do.
He ridicules foe proyigp, gad deyides ad
b. a amtm far pm HNW* to
locates,... -ttntffiffff fto® fop
irritate and to provoke *«*Han
North, than tho speeches of Cast,
■ad Cky. I,
From the subject of the Wilmot Proviso,
the speaker passes to the alleged grievances of
the two sections of the Union. These, bow
erer, an mainly set down to the account of
the North and the chief of them be attri
butes to the bad faith of the free States, ia
their action on the subject of returning fu
gitire slaves to bondage. He has the har
dihood and cold-blooded rillaony to openly
advocate the return of slaves to bondage, as
a duty which the Free States are solemnly
and religiously bound to discharge. His
views on this subject, concur with those of
Clay, Meade, and the moat obdurate slave
catcher and man-trapper of the South. He
does not even intimate the necessity of
guarding the rights of the free colored citi
aena of his own State; but he avows his
intention to vote for the bill of Mr. Meade,
with all its horrid peculiarities. Like Clay,
he goes beyond the decision of the Supreme
Ceurt, in the case of Prigg vs. Pennsylvania,
and would take the work of slave-hunting
and siave-eapturing from the general Govern
ment, and bind it upou the shoulders of the
Free States. He next considers the griev
*CeM***Sulh t ,at l ieBe are Abolition
SocmUMat the North. He thinks that they
have not produced anything good or valu
able; that they have put back the cause;
that they have spent money enough to pur
chase all the slaves in Maryland that they
have bound the slaves more firmly, Sic. Sic.
Having denounced the Abolition Societies,
and apologised for the violence of the North
ern Press, be eulogises the Union and ridi
cules the idea of its peaceful dissolution.
He then avows himself a colonizationist, and
closes his lengthy speech with the following
appropriate, significant and humiliating ap
plication o his Southern masters, ior the of
fice of President:
And now,Mr.President,l draw these obser
vations to a close. 1 have spoken freely, and
I meant to do so. I have sought to make no
diaplty; I have sougot to enliven the occasion
by no animated discussion; I have aougni only
to speak my sentiments fully and at large,
being desirous once, and for all, to let the
Senate know, and to let the country know,
the opinions nnd sentiments which I entertain
on all these subjects. These opinions are not
likely to be suddenly changed. If there be
any future service that I can render to the
country, consistently with these sentiments
and opinions, I shall cheetfully render it. If
there be not, J shall still he glad to have any
oppoitunity to disburden my conscience from
the bottom of my h«»K* and to make
known every political sentiment that therein
exists.
Well done, Daniel! you’ve done the wotk,
and it’s proper to ask for the pay. You
have betrayed innocent blood why
yhould you be denied the thirty pieces of
silver”?—r. n.
No Union with Slaveholders,
One good, at least, will be accomplished by
the present discussion in Coogtess and else
where, on the subject of Slavery—they will
disclose, to the entire nation, and the world,
the teal relation of this government, and peo*
pie to the siave system. Mr. Toombs, of
Georgia, has stated the case with exceeding
clearness and force, in a speech, delivered
by him,in Congress, on.the 27th of Febuary.
We give it below— let every man who
would fjee bis soul from the blood guiltiness
of Slavery, read and ponder this statement.
Let those who scoff at the men who adopt the
motto of “no union with Slaveholders and
who yet propose to be genuine abolitionists,
learn a lesson irom Mr. Toombs. He clear
ly shows the position occupied by William
Lloyd Garrison,and the American Anti-slavery
Society, to be the logical, and inevitable re
sult from the basis that Slaveholding is sin.
Slaveholder thou he be, his rebuke of those
who claim to be Soil men,” and who
y«t Ulje especial pains to pour their invec
t|voa upon abolitionists, is pungent and time
ly. It is oleat that nothing short of a disso
lution of the present union, can free the north
from the sin and guilt which attach to Sla
very. Mr. Tooms said
The old Confederation, which was found
strong enough,under a sense of common dan
ger, to carry ua triumphantly through the
war of the Revolution, upon the return of
peace, was supposed to be insufficient for the
wants of the country. Delegates met in
convention at Philadelphia to amend it the
present Constitution way the result of their
labors. Tbs journals and debates of that
Convention attest the fact that the delegates
from the slave-holding Slates saw the dan
ger of submitting their rights to projierty in
slaves, to the hostile legislation of the pro
posed new government. They then foresaw
that they would be ia i minority a strong
hostility fo that interest was openly manifest
ed in the Convention they were wise enough
not to expect an abatement of that aeniimeni,
and therefore they demanded special guaran
tees for its protection. The inflexible perti
nacity with which some of t|ieie guarantees
were insisted upon, on more than one occasion
during the deliberations of that Assambly,
threatened the loss of the whole plan ol
Union. They were conpeded because tbe
Unton could not have been formed without
their concession. These special guarantees
were—
-Ist. An exception of the African slave
trade from the general power of Congress
user commerce for twenty years.
2d. Representation fot slaves in this
branch of Congress.
Sd. Tbe right to demand the delivery up
of fugitives from labor escaping to the non
aiavenolding confederates.
4th. The obligation of the Gonetal Gov
ernment to suppress insurections.
These special securities, together with the
reservation of the States respectively, or to
the people,” of the powers not delegated to
the United Slates by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to tbe States,” were suppos
ed by those who granted them and those whe
accepted them to be amply sufficient to pro
tect property in slaves from any hostile action
of this Government. In this sense was the
Constitution received and accepted by the
people of the United States. The only de
feet in these guarantees results from the fact
that the execution and faithful observance oi
them depends upon tbe good faith of the Gov
ernment; in themselves honestly adhered to,
they ate full, ample, sod sufficient.
The history of some of them ia curious and
instructing. At tbe time of the formation ol
the Constitution, Virginia and Maryland hats
prohibited tbe African slave trade, North Car
olina had laws trampling and restraining it,
South Carolina and Georgia insisted upon
further importations. These two Ststes bar
gained with New England, and a part of the
consideration wan, that New England was to
vote for the eootinoanoa of the African slave
trade for twenty Georgia and South
Carolina were to vote to place the general
commerce of the country under tbe oontro)
of a majority of Congress, instead of two
thirds, which had been passed by tbs Con
vention. The understanding was f*irlv ear*
ned out on 'both aides, sod thus the African
slave trade was made lawful commerce under
waKtaas
Oyed Ml mmm
she wm none the loser by our part of \b*
contract, as she did the carrying, and receiv
ed the profits of the speculation in slaves.—
Yet in the face of these facts, and is dedano
of these provisions of the Constitution, we art
told on this floor, by New England Repre
sentatives, that alas# property is oat of iht
protection of the Government. Thousands o
these sieves that introduced as lawful corn
tnerce are still held by the people of thi
South other thousands, which were jolt
for taxes and other debt **ue this Government
are thus held, the money is, ov may be ii
your treasury, liable to be paid out lor you
per diem pay. Your Government has direc
or imperfect liens upon other thousands in tht
shape of official or other bond#. We have iht
right to call on you to give your blood ti
maintain these thousands and all the rest o
the slaves of the South in bondage. It is
nominated in the bond.” Yet with these oh
ligations resting upon you, we are told b
you that slave property is out of the peotectioi
of the Government. Gentlemen, deceive no
yourselves, you caunot deceive others. Thi
is a pro slavery Government. Slavery i
stamped npon its heart—ihe Constitution.-
You must tear that out of the body politi
before you can commence the work of its end
ication.
I have heard in this Hail, within a fry
days past fierce and bitter denunciations fron
northern lips, of Abolitionists—those of th<
Garrison school, who sometimes chance ti
meet in Faneuil Hall. In my judgment, lliei
line of policy is the fairest, most just, tnos
honest and defensible of all the enemies o
our insiitutions. And such will be the judg
ment of impartial histoiy. They shun n»
question, they wear no mask.” They admi
some, at least,of the constitutions! obligation
to protect slavery. They hold these obiiga
lions inconsistent with good conscience, am
may therefore denounce the institution as *i
covenant'with Hell,' and struggle earnestl;
for its overth ow. If their conduct is devoii
of every other virtue, and every other clain
to our respect, it is at least consistent. The.
do not seek, as many members do here, ti
get the benefits, and shun the burdena of thi
bargain.
Thi Pennsylvania Freeman shal
have full credit for all articles which we ini'
copy from that paper. We think it, how
ever, mistaken in presuming that we havi
often been an offender in this respect. W
have taken but one extract from that papei
in many weeks past; and for that we thini
we gave full credit. But, let that pass w
shall take the kind admonition of the Free
man and pledge ourselves that there shal
be no ground for complaint, nor cause of ex
hoitatiun in future.—r.o.
Report of the Rochester Anti-Slavery
Fair, held Jan. 23, 1850.
Pursuant to the appointed time, there weri
gathered together in the spacious Minerv
Hall, which had been prepared for the oc
casion, many of the devoted friends of Wesi
ern New York, brioging with them of thei
choicest treasures to lay upon this annua
Anti-Slavery altar.
The gross receipts of the Fair, were $2lB
88 the expences, including, transportation c
the foreign box, and parcel, amounted t
$98,02; leaving in the treasury $116,86
small sum, in consideration of the effort
made, by the friends who are faithfully labor
ing, in this depaitment of the vineyard, an
would o’ercast our minds with sadness am
dear, ndency, were it not for the goodness c
the cause, in which we are engaged, and thi
consciousness of having put forth our best en
endeavours to produce a different result.
Among the favorable influences connectec
i with the Fair; was the supper, in the adjoin
ing apartment of the Hall, at which a
least two hundred of hath sexes, an
all 0010/s, and classes, sat down togethei
and during the w hole time the most perfe<
kindness, couitesy, and propriety, of behat
ior was manifesto 1.
Our thanks sre due sod cordially tendere
tto our kirfl friends M mchester, England
in Cork, Ireland, for their valuable dona
lion to the cause, every papiu
mache was sold, also the large and very elt
gantly dressed dolls, and many other thing
oo numerous to name, were very beiutili
and saleable. In yievy of the smallness c
the sum, reajiaed at the Rochester fair, w e
would say to our tr&ns-atlantic triends, Tbinl
not that you have labored in vain; a quaniiv
of beautiful and useful articles is on hand
which will be disposed of at other Fairs
The almost formant Anti-slavery field, in thi
vicinity of the North Star, which you dear
to have cultivated, is slowly, but surely be
ing brought into usefulness, and the harves
must come, if #e only continue our efforts
and do not leave thp plough standing in thi
furrow.
For the generous and beautiful table fur
nished, and attended, by the kind Alban]
friends, we are especially greatful, and wi
would would our thanks, also to Waterloo
Walworth, Maeedon, Henrietta, Port Byron
Collins, and our own city friends, for thei
bountiful donations.
The aid of fripnds, who generously gavi
their personal assiatanee, apparently embrac
ing with joy, the opportunity to toil in thi
good work, which they believe ta tending u
hasten the day, when Slavery’s galling ehain
will be broken, was highly appreciated.
On the last evening of the fair, the con
pany present, were addressed by Frederic]
Douglass, and Charles L. Remond.
AMY POST.
The Comparison.
It has ever been the custom of the oppres
sor to rivet the chains of his victim, and ther
to attempt his justification: so now when th<
sons of Africa are hurled to the lowest dept hi
of degradation, by the hand of civilised avar
ice, the aelf-jnatifying tyrant boldly declare
that they belong to an inferior species, inca
pable of moral or intellectual elevation, anc
legitimately falling under the domination oi
a superior speces; because, forsooth, thi
[Jniveruiy of the state of slavery, will
its coda penal for every one who teaches
•lave to read or write, has not made ever}
oegro a Calhoun or Demosthenes, the whoh
race must be degraded from homo to stmia.
and the giant powers of Might and For«
may continue with impunity to trample oi
the necks of their victims. This idea origin
sting in a desire to justify as expedient whai
cannot be defended sa morally right, Is entire
ly unsupported by scientific evidence; sor
when we see individuals of a long-oppress*
race, who have spent their infancy, youth
and early msnbeod, under the soul-withering
lash of the taskmaster, without moral oi
menial cultivation, suddenly homing thei.
bonds, and electrifying the world with their
eloquence, and showing themselves every
way superior. to a majority of those who, be
longing to 11gee for qges fivored, hive spent
their whole lives in search of knowledge,
truly we need not tbe light of acMoee to
prove that they belong to bo inferior specie*
«nd the knight* of tbe murderous lash, and
the descendant* of Virginia’* tobacco-bought
wire*, must found theit right to oppress on a
more evident superiority than their own illus
trious origin, or the brilliancy of their intel
lectual attainments.
New York City.
We extract the following from the Speech
of the lion. Mr. Bissetl, recently made in
the House of Representatives.
The power of Congress to abolish the
slave trade and slavery at the arsenate, forte,
and navy yards, and in thia District, will
hardly be questioned by any of our Southern
triends. And yet, neither the one nor the
other has been abolished, to this day, in any
of those places. Even slavedcalers now
drive their occupation in this District, at plea
sute. Could not the North, had she chosen
so to do, have put so end to slavery and the
slave trade in all these places, long ere tins?
She has forborne to do so. Is that forbear
ance any part of the “aggression” upon
slavery which now justifies rebellion against
•he Union!
Now, sir, let us consider thoee minor
charges, so pertinaciously urged against the
tiee States, that make up the turn total of
those “aggressions” which justify these gen
tlemen in dissolving the Unioo. What ue
these charges! Why, it is charged, first,
that among the people ot -the free State*
there is a prevalent and increasing feeling
adverse to slavery. Thia statement, or
charge, it it be one, I cannot deny. But 1
atn at a loss to conceive hW that can be re
garded as an “aggression” upon the South,
or a justification lor the act of overthrowing
ihis Government. Is it required of the lieu
Stales that they, in aggregate, shall keep a
supervision over the views and opinions of
their individual citizens, on political, inotal or
any other subjects! Is not this a country of
freedom of opinion And do not our South
ern friends, even, reoognise the principle tbai
‘•error of opinion may be safely tolerated
wheio reason is left free to combat it>” But
are the people of the free States peculiar in
their views on this subject! Does not the
aggression” come alsofiom another quarter
and with ten-fold force. How is the feeling
in Kentucky, where, at a receut election,
more than ten thousand vole* (as 1 am in
formed) were cast in favor of complete eman
cipation How is it in other Northern slave
States, when Van Buren, even, at the last
Presidential election, found warm supporters,
and not a few vute*! Now, gentlemen
ot the South, you cannot prevent these things
—this feeling, or sentiment, or whatever else
you may call it—even among the people of
youi own slaveholding Statesman you! Are
you not asking too much then, w hen you fa
quire us of tbe North and West to suppress it
among our people! We could not do so if
we would. And if we had the power, our
refusal to exeicise it would by no meaos tend
to justify the destruction of this Republic.
Again It is made an accusation rgainst
'he free States, that their ministers of the
Gospel make slavery a subject of pulpit dis
quisition, thus increasing the hetiiluy already
existing against that institution. To some
extent this may be the fact, Mr. Chairman
though I confess that, so far as my own
knowledge extends, such instances are ex
ceedingly rare. But what then! Can w»
prevent that! Ought we to try! Why, on
this point we have the authority of the gen
tleman from Mississippi [Mr. Brown] him
self, in favor of the practice. You will recol
lect, sir, that after treating us loan argument
of considerable length, designed to shew
that the moral and religious condition of the
negro is improved by his being he’d in bond
age—and alter declaring that, in his opinion,
slavery ia “a great moral, social, po
litical, and religious blessing—-a blessing to
the slave, and a blessing to the master”—h#
drops the auhject by saying: “It is do pan of
my purpose to discuss this piopositio&. The
subject, in this view of it, belongs rather to
the pulpit than to the hall* at legislation.”
■Surely, sir, he will now complain no more of
sermons on the subject of slavery: and
when he ooroea to draftthe “declsraiion” for
the “Southern Confederacy”—(l trust that
has not already been done) —he will cettainly
ft it include this as one of the “cause* wbten
impel us to the separation.”
But again: It is charged also against the
free States, that we tolerate anu-alavery so
cietiea. Yes, sir: we tolerate anti-slavery
socities, native American societies, temper
ance societies, moral reform societies, mis
sionary societies sewing societies, six! possi
bly—though I am not certain—other societies.
Indeed, sir, we are tolerant tow srds all sorts
of societies. We are so, because, first, we
have no right to be intolerant ia reference to
j such matters; and, secondly, because there
is no necessity for meddling with them. We
I must hunt for other cause than this, sir, to
justify a disco! ition of the Union.
Another charge against us is, that we pgr.
noit men to perambulate the countxy, lectur
ing on abolitionism —thus increasing tbe pre
judice already existing against the institution
of slavery. There are such men.no doubt.
My mind recurs to one just now—ono who*
in that way, has probably exerewed more
influence in the North, than all the other
anti-slavery lecturers put together. Thin
man is Cassius M- Clay, a citizen of the
slaveholding State of Kentucky. When
our Southern friends will agree to seal his
mouth on thst subject, or confine his effort*
to abolish slavery to the Southern States
where be belongs, it wjill be time enough for
us of the North to set about devising some
mode of confining itinerant lecturers, or pres
cribing subjects for the exercise of their elo
quence. I might mention other lecturers of
the same sort, for whom the North is in
fobted to the slave Stales. But it is unnecs
sary.
It ia also made a matter of accusation
against tbe free States, that aati-siavery
presses are kept up there, and that the paper's
supplied by them are circulated throughout
he Northern States, and even into the South
ern; and this is one of the principal causes
which render it necessary to establish a
“Southern Confederacy,” which ahail em
brace ju*t exactly the fifteen slaveholder
State* and no more. We cannot deny, Mr.
Chairman, that such papers do circulate quite
extensively in some portions, of the free
States, and some of them, piobably, may bo
found even south of Mason an*! Dixon’s line.
I have a paper of that character on my desk
now. Here it is, sir. [Holding it up.] It
a fair-looking paper, Mr. Chairman; and 1
observe that its at tide* are written with great
,>ower. But, I assure you, sir, it is fearfully
severe on slavery. And it circulates ex
tensively in the North, too; the number not
>eing less. lam told, than fo art ecu thousand
weekly; besides some thousands which find
their way tafo the siaveholding States. Now
l can imagine that you suppose this paper to
bo published in Yeimont. You are mistaken
dr. It is not published there, nor in Matse
•husetts, nor even north of Mason and Dix
*n’aline. It is published on slave territory,
,ir; right here to sight of this caphol, and
almost within sonnd of my voice. Right here
«r, upon lb# my spot from which tbe gen
tleman from North Carotins [Mr. Clinouan]
is not going to be driven, becauee it ie hie
_*alave territory.” Yee, gentlemen of tbe
South, from your own midst; from the very
ioors of your houses, snrrounded by your
slave population, do you aond forth aati-a’sve
ry papers, in number more than fourteen
thousand per week, to deluge the North, sad
manufacture public sentiment there. Then
>ou make the circulation of thoee papers, and
ihe prevalence of a sentiment which they
cannot bnt engender, a pretext for overthrow
ing this Government. Silence yoar own the*
niton presses; keep for your own use the
fourteen thousand abolition papers which you
weekly distribute among the people of tbe
North, and then claim, if vuu will, that the
wusttnoe of tboltow jutatt* in tf* /m*
ttni&n justification to you for dissolving the
1 remember, also, that there was another
amiaUftry press in rigorous and very effec
ure operation for come time in Kentucky—
Mr. Browm. We destroyed it.
Mr. Bisscll. So you did, by violence.
But, by your own laws, and the decision of
your own courts, you were punished for it.
You were competed to make compensation
in damages for your lawless act. Now, I
ask our Southern fnends, in all good feeling,
if they can justily urge as a reason for dissol
ving the Union, annoyances consequent upon
a state of things in the free States which
tbev cannot prevent at their own doors?
We are met by the gentleman from North
Carolina with another difficulty, fox which he
holds the North responsible. He suggests
that the increasing anti-slavery sentiment in
the North will prevent the President from ap
pointing slaveholders to office. For the
present, let a single fact allay the gentleman’*
fears. The Presidency has been given to the:
slaveholding States during fmiv-eighi of the
last sixty years. And this, too. though the
white populat on of the slaveholding States;
has rarely, it at any time, exceeded one-half
that of the free States. Of the foreign mis
sions of all grades, mote than a majority
have been given to the South. Of tlte Cabi
net appointments, very nearly, if not quite
half, have been given to the South. Of the
officers in the army and navy, it will lie found
that, considering the relative population of
the free and slaveholding States, at least
three out of fire have been given to the 9 outh
How is it at this very moment, sir, while
these very complaints of outrage, in suits,
tyranny, and loss of office, are being otade
Why, air, the President—a majority *>f the
Cabinet—a majority of our foreign ministers
—a majority of the members of the Supreme
Court, and the presiding officer and clerk of
this House—are Southern men and slave
holders. Does not this satisfy the geiitleman
from North Carolina 1 Surely he might, on
this subject, rest quite easy. Another diffi
culty gravely set forth in this gentleman’*
speech, 1 ought, perhaps, to notice with be
coming seriousness. 1 allude to the refusal
of the New England spinster to take the
Southern gentleman’s atm! That was
wrong, unquestionably. But then, these
Yankee girls are very independent, and will
do just as they please—as some of us have
learned from very painful personal experience.
But I do not think that a dissolution of the
Union need to follow as a necessary conse
quence It is a proper subject for negotia
tion. And as the lady cannot fail to perceive
by this time that she is in danger of becom
ing a second Helen, she will doubtless he
more yielding.
Fro.n the Christian Enquirer.
Fugitive Slaves.
If we read conectly, one of the “Compro
mise resolutions” of Mr. Clay calls upon the
North to consent to measures for the certain
restitution of runaway slaves. We doubt—
as we hope—that the North will yield no
such consent. It is, pethapa, to be feared
that the “spirit of trade” and the habits of
party —to use vague phrases that speak very
intelligible forces—although they, operating
unconsciously to those whom they direct,
may prevent, as these and other causes pre
vented at the time of the admission of Mis
souri, the determined resistance to slavery
extension—the resolute saying to that pe
culiar institution,“you shall not go onehair's
breadth farther.” But we more than ques
tion whether any Not them earthly policy, or
any party allegiance, will be able to grasp
and deliver the living, breathing chattel,
whose locomotive powers have brought h'tn
to the soil and company of freemen. A slave
here, is very apt to look so like a human bat
ing, that our citizens would be slow to come
under any new obligation to return him, as
a thing, whence he came; indeed, even now,
they are not —let the iniquity be confessed!
—over anxious, lest by winking they should
not see the deserter from the house of bond
age; and to ask them to be more sharp-Bighted
as constables and slave-hunters for the South,
would be breath wasted. At ihisend of the
Union, there is a sort of common sense
which sharply distinguishes between fugitive
slaves and fugitive criminals; so sharply, in
deed. that Box Brown and his follow self-
emancipators are rather tespected for their
heroic and enduting love of liberty, than
searched for as ungrateful creatures, feloni
ously endeavoring to “own themselves.”
This is said with none other than the kindest
and most Christian feelings towards the
South. For though such a sentiment may
be received with contempt in some quarters,
we deem the States cursed by slavery as en
during a heavy burthen, not of their own as-1
sumption, which forbid* any use of taunts or
threats or vituperative phrases. Half of our j
anti-slavery feeling, at least, comes fiomsyin- 1
pathy with the master, and none of that
sympathy is less sincere and dead because, as
yet, they spurn it and refuse to admit there
is any occasion for it. But we refer to this
matter of fugitive slaves, because it is best
that the matter should be fairly understood.
Congress, driven to it, may possibly pass
more stiingent laws for the restoiation of
runaway property; (did anybody ever under
take to write a sentence about slavery with
out seeing, in the confusions it makes with
his pronouns and the contradictious it re
quires in his rhetoric, thst it must be s false
institution, since he cannot use good grammar
ami good English in speaking of it?) but men
cannot he found at the North to execute them.
The day has gone by, when an esc«j>ed slave
can be apprehended and sent back, from the
free Eastern States, by the agency of free
Eastern people. If that day has not gone
by then we would rather live at the South,
generous, hospitable, and in many respects
manly, notwithstanding its one dark, evil
thing, than call ourselves Northern Men.
A Seen* ml St. Louis—Bla?e Auction.
We find in the St. Louis’ People’s Organ
of the 91st ult., (says the Advent Harbinger)
the following account of a sale of “human
cattle” in that city. It is rather “fanatical,”
perhaps, for a paper published in a Slave
Slate, and in the very city from which Elijah
P. Lovejuy was driven forth but a few years
ago, (and finally murdered at Alton,) for ut
tering the truth io language infinitely less of
fensive to the “ears polite” of human fiesh
dealers. But this is only one of the hopeful
“signs of th times.”
“Commercial.—The steps of the Court
House were crowded yesterday rooming to
witness the sale «f a fine looking drove of
human beings. The crittets, after having
their mouths examined like horses, and their
limbs pulled about, to test .their soundness,
were put up to be knocked down by the ham
mer. Competition was very brisk, and the
let realized good pi ice*. A girl, Caroline,
attracted our attention and interest, from the
anxiety she displayed during the bidding for
her fiesh and blood, hone and sinews. As
the price rose to $4OO, a hopeful meaning
•mile gradually spread over her dusky, good
natural face, (the last lot, a boy, had only
brought some $455 or to.) The bidding
confined to two petsons, rose to $530. She
became restless, continually glancing from
one to the other of her would-be purchaser*
—her predilections for one bad evidently been
formed—“s47o, say the five,” called the
auctioneer; a pause ensued, of suspense to
her; the one she hoped to serve, hesitated.
“Going at $480; going,—who’ll aay the
$500?” He still hesitated; the hopeful look
had gone from her features, and was repla
ced by something akin to a feverish dread—
still she looked in his face, wishing she might
dare to urge him oa. Ha nodded, “$5OO lor
this fine likely girl; fifteen yeais old; a guar
antee given.” $5OO and going. A nod
from his opponent brought bar up to $606.
From this moment she seemed to have east
aside all hope; it qraa a matter of perfect in
difference to her, which might buy her; at
leaat all outward signs had fied, and she
glanced round calmly at tea crowd of beads
fryjuog<mh<| af oofomeiaek m (J* but.
shown publicly and gratuitously. We grew
sick of the scene, as the auctioneer proclaim
ed $6lO bad been bid, and we turned to
force our way through the crowd, but we
were fast wedged. “Going—fair waining
—going;” the key feH on the book, and the
auctioneer bent forward to enter the amount
of sale—the girl looked also at the sum the
fetched in the flesh market, but never moved
a muscle, except, perhaps, a alight brighten
ing was observable in the eye, and in the
parting of the lips, as if in pride that she had
sold for so much.
‘Caroline, you snd the boys go home,’
exclaimed some one near: the crowd opened
to let them pasa; and wa escaped. Home!
Father of all, what a mockery of that en
dearing term the home of the stranger, per
haps. the trader—a home where bondage
ends but with death.”
From the Pennsylvania Freeman.
We extract the following article from the
Pennsylvanian,as we are quite willing to give
it the benefit of our circulation. It is a pretty
faiy specimen of that journal. We are much
obliged to the editors for their advice to some
of the Democrats, to buy and read the last
number of our paper. “We should like” all
of ihem to do it, and thus ascertain how
much truth there is in the assertion, that we
have elevated Thaddeus Stevens into a “very
vYilberforce of piety and patriotism;” and
also, that we "eloquently applauded” the call
for the Democratic Meeting in favor of the
Wilmol Proviso, which it chooses to desig
nate as a “Free Soil Meeting.” This latter
assertion is paiticularly surprising to ns, as
we fancy it will be to onr readers. We par
ticularly request ‘hem to refer to the article:
on the subject in our la»f*paper.
A New Ally of the Free Soil Parts’.—
We referred briefly, on Friday and Satur
day, to the earnest and zealous opposition
of ihe North American, to the late Demo
cratic Union meeting, and to The Pensylvaniart
and also to the vehement devotion of Thad
deus Sievens to the cause of Free Soil; and;
since then, we have noticed the organ of the
Abolitionists and Diaunionists, in this city,
the so-called Pennsylvania Freeman, has
taken the same ground. It pours out its vi
als of wrath upon the Democrats who dared
to attend, and the Journal that dares to de
fend,the great meeting in favor of the Consti
tution and the Union. We should like some
of those Democrats, who have been invited tc<
take part in the Free Soil meeting now in
course of incubation, under the joint auspices
of Van Buren disorganize™ of 1848, and
“original Taylor men,” to purchase and per
use a copy of the last week’s Pennsylvania
Freeman. Prominent in its editorial columns
will be found a lengthy article, is abusive of
the Pennsylvanian as anything that hss ever
been written on the same subject by the Free
Soil organs, and quite as denunciatory of the
proceedings and speakers of the late Union
Democratic meeting, as anything that the
North Americau has yet produced. On the
first and second pages will he found the vul
gar and violent speech of Thaddeus Stevens,
endorsed in a most jubilant editorial, in which
that shameless and guiltv demagogue, is ele
vated into a very Wilberforce of piety and
patriotism. Then comes, on the third page,
the copy of the call for the projected Free
Soil meeting, in this city, with certain reso
lutions, committees, and other machinery of
that concern, and this is appropriately follow
ed by a copy of the petition for the Dissolti- j
tion of the Union, now being signed bv the
w hite and black Free Suffers, at North Fifth
st. We need not add, that both the call lor
the Free Soil meeting, and the petition for
the Dissolution of the Union, are eloquently
applauded by the Freeman.
What a jubilee it will be to the Abolition- I
ists, if ever the great national Democracy is
broken up and destroyed! How the dis
unionists, of 31 North Fifth street, will re
joice in their frequent assemblages of whites
and blacks' How Garrison, Thompson, j
Tappan, Douglass, and the British agitators 1
will exult! Aad how gratefuUhey will be
to the Free Soil leaders, and the Free Soil
papers, who have struck the deadliest blow
at our noble old party.
From the Pennsylvania Freeman.
Messrs. Editors,—j have noticed in the j
Freeman an article on tne subject ofCongress,'
extending to post masters aud other* the
power of geving certificates to the slave-hold- j
ers or their agents, for the return of those j
slaves who escape into the free states; and
you ask the Quaker post mastsrs and mis
tresses of Chester coumy what they think of
becoming kidnappers? What answers they
may give to your query, I know not; hut 1
can answer for one post master in Yew York.
1 should be perfectly willing te have that
power conferred on me if I resided in a part
j of the country through which any of those
poor creatures passed. In taking the office
I that I hold, 1 affirmed to support the Consti
lotion of the United States and the slate of
New York, and I shall do it so far as the
duties of a post master ste concerned. I did
not pledge myself to go to the field of baitle
j and slaughter my fellow man; neither did Ij
agree to steal human beings, and consign,
.them to slavery or death; and if the power of
granting certificates to the slaveholder was
conferred on me, I should interpret the Con
stitution of the United States is the same way
that the slaveholders do, when A they say it
does not give Congress a> v power to legis
late on the subject; snd I cannot find the
i word slave in that instrument, snd as I know
no right by which man can hold his fellow
man as property, 1 should be like a judge I
saw an account of some years since, I think
he belonged to Massachusetts. He would
not acknowledge any such right, until the
slaveholder brought a bill of sale from the Al
mighty.
A Whig Pcsr Master.
Did our correspondent promise to support
the Constitution of the United States, only
“so far as the duties of a post mister are con
cerned?” On such an'oath or affirmation of
allegiance, could be have obtained the office?
We assert, that in making that promise to
maimain, preserve and defend the Constitu
tion, he did pledge himself to deliver up the
fugitive from service or tabor, on the claim of
j the party to whom such service or labor may
i be due, under the laws of the state from
which he hss escaped; and if he refuse* to do
this, violate* his contract with the South,
and breaka his oath or affirmation of office,
The judge whose example he quotes, and
j proposes to follow, would have been a more
honest man, had he resigned his seat on the
bench, when he fourd that hia obligations of
office conflicted with his duties to his fellow
man and his God. He was right in breaking
his oath, because ite had sworn to do wicked
ly, but by continuing the promise of allegi
ance, which he did by remaining io the office,
of which the oath was a necessary condition,
be prejured himself. This may sound harsh
ly to our correspondent, but its truth is to us
as clear as sunlight. We do not doubt the
benevolence, and love of justice snd freedom
which, m his cate and that of the judge,
prompted the aid given to the fugitive, but the
making of promise*, wul) an intention of
breaking them, because it would be wrong
to keep them, it a very singular way of serv
ing God.
We alluded last weak to a contemplated du
el between W. P, Bisaell of Illinois, and Jef
ferson Davis of Mississippi. We give the
Correspondence, which resulted in the set
tlement of the difficulty.—?. D.
Washikotok, D. C. Feb. 22, 1850.
Sir: I im informed that in yesterdayda
bate you asserted that at the time it was
claimed for the Mississippi regiment oa the
field of Buena Vista, to have paaeed through
the scattered files of the 2d Indiana regiment
sad to have met the Mexican forces, who had
routed and were pursuing that regiment, the
Mississippi regiment wee not within one mile
and a half of that particular spot.
Not having bean aM»
I «d being th. proper to
answer any charge which a responsible roar
may make against the Mississippi regimen'
referred to, I take this mode of asking wba
tber the information I have received is cor
net.
Yours, respectfully, JEFF. DAVIS
Hon. Mr. Bissell.
Washington, Feb. 22. 186 C
Sta, In your note of this date, you inquire
whether I asserted, in yesterday** debate,
thst, “at the time it was claimed for the Bue
na Vista, to have passed through the scat
tered files of the 2d Indians regiment, snd to
have met the Mexican fotoes, who had rou
ted and were putauing the Mississippi reg
iment was net within one mile and a half ol
that particular spot?”
The beet answer I can give to your inquiry
is to state what I did say,.which waa this;
That,“at the time the 2d Indiana regiment
gave Wat, the Mississippi regiment was not
within a mile and a half of the scene of ac
tion.” This substantially, was all I said in
reference to the Mississippi regiment. 1 al
so said that the 2d Kentucky, the 2d Illinois
and a the Ist Illinois regiments,
were the troops thst, at that time, met and
repulsed the advancing columns of the ene
my. In my remarks, I referred to what oc
cured at “that particular spot” at that point
of time.
Having answered your inquiry, I deem it
due, in justice alike to myself and the Miss
issippi Regiment, to ssv, that 1 made no
charge against that RMgimenr, but am willing
to awaid them the credit due to their gallant
and distinguished services in that battle.
My only object was to do justice to the char
acter of others, living and Head, whose con
duct fell under my own observation on. thst
occasion—a duty imposed upon me by re
marks previously made in the course of the
same debate.
Very respectfully, vours, Sic.
W. P. BISSELL.
Hom. Jeff. Davis.
r rom tiie Rochester Democrat.
Mr. Webster’s Speech.
We are not disappointed in the remarks
which Mr. Webster's speech is calling forth
in different parts of the country. Nearly all
the letter-writers in Washington are in rap
tures with it. The Washington Union en
dorses it as sound and satisfactory to those
who have for weeks been plotting the dissolu
tion of the Republic. Most of the New
York city journals join in piaising it; and
loudest of all is the Journal of Commerce,
always a bitter reviler of any measure for the
restriction of slavery, and a most obstqious
panderer to Southern demands.
Mr. Webster’s splendid talents snd great
services give to his opinins great weight.
The Whigs of the Noith, especially, have
honored him and trusted in him. On no
question, paiticularly one of so momentous
importance as that which formed one of the j
themes of his late speech—the prohibition of
Slavery in New Mexico—can they differ j
with him without profound and painful regret.
It is not a matter of wander, therefore, that
the papers to which we have referred, should 1
express a joyful surprise at the new position;
that great Statesman has taken upon the;
Slavery question.
We do not know what effect the speech
will have upon members of Congress, but how j
it will be received by the great mass of the
people at the North, there can be no doubt. I
On the great question which has agitated the'
country since the acquisition of territory from I
Mexico—the application of the ordinance oi
1787—it is in direct conflict with their wishes,!
their principles and deliberately formed pur-1
poses. We speak particularly of tne Whig
People at the North. They cannot —pro-
foundly as they respect and venerate Daniel'
Webster—sustain his position io this respect.
The attempt to do so would, in our humble
judgment, be a disaster to the Whig party in
all the Free Stales—the only party that has
for yeais offered a steady and consistent op
position to the encroachments snd the spread
of slavery.
The Boston Atlas, [the leading Whig
paper of New England, aud an able advocate
of the nomination of Mr. Webster as the,
Whig candidate for President in 1848, hasj
a review of this speech, which we regret that
our limited apace to-day will not permit us to
copy entire. The extracts which follow will
suffice to show the feeling of Massachusetts
and New Engiaud Whigs:
It will be seen by a perusal of the speech
itself that the telegraphic report of it which
we published on Friday morning, and which
caused so deep a sensation, we may say dis
satisfaction, m this community, was substan
tially correct. As publisher of a Whig
Journal, we are expected to express our opin
ion in regard it. That expectation we shall
not disappoint. We know well the weight
which is attached by our people to the opin
ions of Mr. Webster, and the influence they
exert in New England and throughout the
countiy. We would not disagree with the
views which ono so distinguished entertains
—one for whom we have the moat profound
respect and veneration—if we could help it.
In ihe present instance we cannot agree with
Mr. Webster. His sentiments are not our
sentiments. They are not, we venture to
say, the sentiments of the Whigs of New
England.
We pass by that part of the speech which
relates to the catching of runaway slaves,
with a single remark. It is no part of the
duties of s State to furnish officers to catch
and jails wherein to hold runaway slaves.
Congress may do it. Whether northern men
ought to vote fur such a law, ia another
question. We would vote for no law impos
ing duties upon freemen which we would not
ourselves be willing to aid in enforcing.
How many of our people would be willing to
join in the chaas of an escaped s'ave, and be
come his keeper until taken back into bond
age, we know not. The occupation would
not be reputable in our judgment. We have
not seen Mr. Mason’s bill on this subject.
We know not their provisions, but be they
what they may, we trust before the bill be
come* a law, that it will be so amended, that
South Carolina and Louisiana will be com-
Killed to refrain from taking from our
orthern vessels colored seamen, Massachu
setts citizens, and imprisoning them while ihe
vessel remains in port, and selling them into
slavery to pay the jail fee, unless they are
paid by the owner or consignee of the ves
sel.
The most important part of the speech—
we mean the part which will receive the
closest scrutiny—is that which relates to
Texas snd New Mexieo. Mr. Webster says
what is true—that more Slave States cen be
made out of Texas, and that the Treaty of
Annexation recognizes this fact. These
States are to be made Slave States, made so
by law, human law, not God's law. Mr.
Webster considers Congress is bound to ad
mit these new Slave States whenever they
apply properly for admission. This point we
shall not st present discuss. Mr. Webster
objeots to the application of the ordinance of
1787 to the territory of New Mexico, be
cause Providence has made it incapable of
sustaining a population of slaves. We shall
not ask whether God made Texas for a land
of bqndsge- We shall not ap (hr forget Qur
duty as even to surmise that our Creator
made any portion of bit heritage fw the
aoduC Cf slavery or any portion of our men
for bondmen. It is man who made Texas
Slave country —not Qod. God's law ia free
dom, and as man hsa perverted God’s law by
his law, and dedicated portions of hi* earth to
slavery, so would we by man's law, and the
Almighty law, and make the earth free* in
other words, inasmuch as the largest portion
of Texas is dedicated to Slavery by human
law, so we would by human lavy dedicate
every inch of N«W Mexico and California to
freedom. This would he a fair Compromise.
Our people will never be content to leave
ibis to engnee. Jf we are to ha?« territori
al government for New Mexieo. t»
contain the ornMM—
diiOUld
«»vry ordinance, and it
IwouM be as wroug to vote against putting it
mto a territorial bill, oa the ground that God
did not intend te make that slave territory,
as it would be to tote rt out of the Cerath*-
t tion of California where it now to, because
God did not intend to make that a slate
Stole.
1 RespoaseTrowtke Or*cleof Slnv*4om.
Ms. Calhoun baa spoken! Aad wbst did
1 he say! We cannot gite the speech entire in
1 i out columns, and would not if we could; hut
will gite a lew "sample*,” by which oui
readers can judge of the to*. He makes a
com para tite statement of the influence and
power of slavery as exemplified by the cen
sus of 1760, and in the last census in 1840.
and discovers that while at the former pe
riod the population of the free State* ex
ceeded those of the slate States only about
95.000, at the last census the majority was
about 9,400.000 !—"Veil, tot of it!” Il
the South choose to sustain an institution which
exeictsea such a paralvxing influence over
them,how can they find fault with us in conse
quence? .Very probably, if we had the
statistics it would be seen that filty years
ago there was a much larger proportion of
drunkards in the United States than there
ia now; hot we are not aware that the per
petuity of the Union is endangered by the
progress of the temperauce reform, or that
the friends of alcohol are about to dissolve
their connection with the Union on account
of the temperance agitation.
Mr. Calhoun also complains that the
North havs so ascendency ovurKtie Sooth to
every department of government! Will he
be kind enough to give us a list of those
who have held offices under the government,
fiom the President down to midshipman, and
the salaiies they have received from the pub
lic purse, that we may see how large a ma
jority have come from the North, and how
much more than half of the public funds
have gone into the pockets of Northern men?
We confess we had rather see the names
tnd figures, than to take the ipse dixit even
of the Southern Autocrat.
Mr.C. also says that the South “has no
concessions or suriendet to make. Shehaa
already surrendered to much, that she has
little left to surrender.” This is almost too
much for our gravity. As, however, it was
uttered with apparent seriousness, don’t
know but the Honorable Senator, from so
long dwelling on the idea, has at last got
to believe that the Southern Slates have
been very much oppressed and down-trod,
den, and that every slaveholder may con
himself an “injnred indiwidual,” and‘more
sinned against than sinning”! We are re
minded of the inveterate, atory-teller, who
after a time puts credence in hia own fab
rications.
He concludes by sa\ ing that if California
is admitted into the Union under the consti
tution chosen by her own citizens, the South
will regard it as a final decision of the teat
question, and ominously adds, that they
would be' “infatuated, not to act according
ly.”
But we ought to ask pardoa of our readers
for devoting so much space to such a speech.
We regard it as merely one of the convulsive
throes of an expiring Hydra.—.Vetr York
Pathfinder.
Mr. Webster on Slavery. One year
ago on the 18th of August, Mr. Webster
held the following language on the floor of
the United States Senate.
“My opposition to the increase of slavery
in this cuunliy, or to the increase of slave
representation in Congress, ia general and
universal. It has no reference to the lines
of latitude or points of the compass. I shall
oppose all sucii extension and all such in
crease, in all places, at all times, under all
circumstances, even against all inducements,
against all supposed limitation of great inter
ests, against all combinational, against all
compromises.”— N. Y. Evangelist.
National Christian Anti-Slavery Con
vention. —A circular *aa be«tf issued by the
clergymen of Cincinnati, calling a Conven
tion in that city on the 17th day April, in fa
vor of “freeing the American Israel from the
&in of slave- holding.” Illinois has been the
first to respond to this call. A meeting was
held at Galesburgh on the 4th inst, in which
the faculty of the College in that place took
an active part. The meeting was addressed
by President Blanchard, and Professor Cole,
showing the connection of the several chur
ches with slave-holdiug, and urging the ne
cessity of more decided action hr the purpose
of freeing the church of this spiritual despot
ism.
Pennsylvania and the Slave Question.
—The Committee of the Pennsylvania House
of Representatives, to whom was referred the
subject of Slavery, have presented a majority
and minority report. The majority report,
signed by Messrs. Beaumont, Scouller, and
Scofield, gives up every thing contended for at
the North, and contends that tke citizens have
as good a right to take slave property to the
territory, as their cattle. The minority report,
on the other hand, says the Philadelphia A
mcrican, embodies the true Pennsylvania doc
trine—the doctrine which the Legislature and
people have asserted constantlysince the found
ation of the Commonwealth—and to which
all true and faithful men within the borders
of the State ate determined to adhere, not
withstanding the threats and menaces of mad
men abroad, and the miserable clinging of
renegades ar home.
California Gold Diggers—lmportant
Decission. —Judge Rodgesa, of the Pennsyl
vania Supreme Court, haa made a decision
which is likely to have some influence on the
opetationa of the silent partner in the Califor
nia gold t digging line. An application was
made to ths Couit by J. A. Lessig, of Phila
delphia, for an injunction to restrain one
Patrick McLangton, for disposing of some
$90,000 worth of gold dust. The plaintiff
alleged that he and Patrick entered into part
nership, for the purpose of digging gold in
California, and that the proceeds, amounting
to the above sum, had been taken possession
of by the said Patrick, without the slightest
attempt to divide the spoils. The gold dust
was at the U. S. Mint, and an injunction
was played to prevent the defendant from
taking it from that place. The Court decid
ed that the refusal of a partner to account, is
no ground of injunction; and that, even il
there was a partnership, the plaintiff not
having labored towards that end, and the
whole fund having been acquited by the de
fendant, it was not partneradip property. The
injunction was refused.
“Contented and Happy-” —The Cum
land Civilian states that the negro man who
mutilated hit wrist in his attempt tp chop his
left hand with a hatchet, when foiled in hia
attempt to run away, haa since died with the
lock-jaw, brought on by self-mutilation.
The Civilian gives }he following ac
count of anoibei act of desperation the part
of a slave:
“We bear that one oftha citizens of this
county, having reason to believe that one ol
his negro woman intended to 'take leave*
northward, resolved very properly, to sell her.
The flave finding it useless to try to escape,
resolved,it would appear, to do something dea
peiate. She accordingly took her two little
children, sod weal tome banka of a neighbor
iog creek,
She throw the children in first, and then
pitched in herself. Bui owing to the coM
neas of the water or some other cause, hard
ly hads be been moment before the took a
•eoood sober thought and got herself and
children out in double quick time.
American Free Cotton.— The friends ol
ths Free Produce movement will rejoice to
lean, that tbs s».t thipqrent of
Free Cotton *a*Qn, arntwi was* 1
lasi; and instead d uewre
srooo l u»ur months in Liv
«s wss the case last year, ninety bale*
were immediatelr sold to s trustworthy
factum, for making into prints; nod U»s .re
maining twelve bales are to I* rowJ mu
sewing eottton, tapes, and other small aril
Rumored Change in t« Carimet. The
Washington Correspondent of tb« Wew
York Triban*, under d*t* of ieb.
Writes.
“I hire reason to believe that Hon. John
9**y*°o, 00 a**«in« of bio infitm health,
will insist on being reii*T*d from the arduous
and incessant labors of bis present station at
no eery distant day, and that his request will
be acceded to by Gen. Taylor, but not till
after the pending negotiations with Great
Britain respecting Central America and the
Nicaragua Ship Canal shall bars been con
cluded. Whenever Mr. Clayton does retire,
he it sooner *r later, I venture to predict that
Hon. Robert C. Winthiop of Massachusetts
will succeed him as Secretary of State.
Yours, K.
Father Mathbw and Slavery.—Father
Mathew is meeting with some opposition in
the Sonth, in consequence of his signature
to the O'Connell circular, issued some years
sgo. Judge Lumpkins, of Georgia —to
whom Father Mathew has written on the
subject avowing it as bis intention nut to in
terfere in any way with the institution of
Slarery—declaring himself not satisfied, un
less the O’Connell circular is repudiated.
"The blow has been struck/’ says the Judge,
"let him recall that blow, and we will be
content. We do not ask him to become our
champion,, but so long as ihp O’Connell
circular remains unexplained, we asm con
sider him the champion of oui foes.”—Mer
ctr Luminary.
Telegraph Across the Atlantic. —The
projectors of an electric telegraph communi
cation between New York and the Isle of
Wight will bring their plan before Congress
at its present session. They propose to lav
down a substantial insulated wire of 36
fibres, coated one half-ineh with gutta percha,
and to guarantee ita working with perfect in
tegrity for ten yean. They offer to complete
it in twenty monies from the dale of contract,
for s sum not to exceed 3,000,000 dollais.
Death of Lord Jeffrey. —Lord Jeffrey,
so well-known as one of the oiiginatoas, and
for many years editur, of the Edinburgh Re
view, died at Edinburgh, Jan. 26th, in the
77th year of his age. His present wife was
sn American women.
Mary Howitt. —Mary Howittis the least
in the world of an authoress. She is a mild,
mibble-aged, intelligent, and lady-like En
glish matron, who is fine looking, and ha?
made a narrow escape fiom being beautiful.
She dresses not as a quakeress, but like a
lady: her manners are gently dignified; her
conversation interesting and fluent. Gifted
with true genius, surrounded by an amiable
and accomplished family, and united to a hus
band of rare talent, she has been enabled from
■uoh sources to drink defiance to misfortune,
snd to retain a moonlike complacency amid
the clouds which have of late clothed her
path .—Elmira Courier.
Exhibition of Industey.—A great meet
ing of the leading merchants, bankers, and
traders of the city of London was lately held
in the Mansion House for the purpose of ta
king into consideation certain resolutions
having in view the promotion of the grand
exhibition of the industry of all nations.
The Lord Mayor took the chair; and Lord
John Russell, Mr. Labouchere, and Lord
Granville were also present. The several
resolutions were proposed by Mr. W. Cotton
Mr Raikes Currie, Lord J. Russell, and the
Governor of the Bank of Englard. Sub
scriptions to the amount of upwards of
10,000 were announced.
Maryland Constitution. The Mary
land Legislature have passed the bill provid
ing for calling a convention to reform the Con
stitution of the State.
Glory. —l love and commend a true good
fame, because it is the shadow of virtue; not
that it doth do any good to the body which it
accompanies, but it is an efficacious shadow,
and like that of St. Peter, cures the diseases
of others. The best kind of glory, no doubt,
is that which is reflected from honesty, such
as was the glory of Cato and Aristides; it was
harmful to them both and is seldurn beneficial
to any man, whilst he lives: what is it to him
after his death, I cannot say, because I love
not philosophy merely national and conjectu
ral, and no man who has made the experi*
ment has been so kind as to come back to in
fo rm us.— Cowley.
Funeral of the Duke of York
If those who attended that funeral
sould have seen their own positic i be
tween the past and the future as we
tee it now, it would have so absorbed
*ll their thoughts as that the body might
have been lowered into its vault, un
seen, and the funeral fanthems have
been unheard. A more singular assem
blage than the doomed group about the
mouth of that vault has seldom been
seen. In virtue of our survivorship,
we can observe them now, each one
with his fate hovering over his uncover
ed head. He who was next to be
lowered into that vault was not there.
He was in his palace, weak in health
and spirits—relieved and yet perplexed
that the course ef government was
simplified by the removal of his remon
strant brother, whose plea of nearness
to the throne—now so solemnly set
aside—had made his interference at
once irksome and difficult to regard.
There would be no more interference
now—no more painful audience—no
more letters brought in with that fa
miliar superscription. The way was
clear now—but to what? Liverpool
and Canning must settle that. It they
felt that the Catholic question must be
settled, they must shojar how it was to
be done; and they must do it. Liver
pool and Canning! By that day twelve
months, how was it with them Lore
Liverpool was not at Windsor that
night. He laid down his careworc
head to rest, unaware that but a feu
more days of life—(as he considerec
life) remained to him. The bod)
breathed for some months; but in i
few days after this, the mind was dead
As for Canning—his heart and mine
were full as his noble brow shone it
the torchlight. He well knew that i
was not only his chief personal enem)
who was here laid low, but the only in
surmountable barrier to his policy
He saw an open course before hint, 01
one which he himself could clear. H<
saw the foul fiend Revolution descent
into that vault, to be sealed down in 1
with that coffin. He saw beyond tha
torchlight chapel a sunny vision o
Ireland tranquilised; and the hope rost
within him that he might achieve i
peace at home —the sound peace o
freedom—as blessed as the peace whicl
he had spread over the world abroad
And all the time, the chill and the
damps of that chapel, dim amidst th<
yellow glare, with the fog of January
were poisoning his vitals, and shorten
ing his allowance of life to a mere span
Beside him stood his friend and com
rade, Huskisson. They were born ir
the same spring, they were neither o
them to know another moment ofhealtl
after this chilly night service; and theii
deaths were to be not far apart. Whal
remained for both was the bitter lasi
drops of the cup of life—sickness, toil
perplexity, some humiliation and in
finite anguish. Here if they had knowr
their future, they would have laid dowr
all self-regards, all ambition, alt hop<
and mirth, all thoughts of finishet
work and a serene old age, and hav<
gone forth to do and suffer the last stage
of their service, before dropping into
their untimely rest. These two hac
made no professions of grief about the
death of the prince: they did not vr uni
their feelings; yet here they were, sac
and solemn; while beside them stood
one whose woes about the loss of hii
royal friend, and about the irreparable
loss to the empire, were paraded before
all men’s eyes, and dinned into the
ears of all who would listen. Here
stood Lord Chancellor Eldon, beside
the open grave in which he declared
that the hopes of his country were be
ing buried. Was he lost in grief?—bis
ready tears in fuller flow than ever?—
his soul absorbed in patriotic medita
tion! 'Lord Eldon, recollecting’—-
what ?—that he might catch cold—stood
upon his hat, to avoid chill from the
flags: ‘and his precaution was com
pletely successful.’ If it had but oc
curred to Canning to stand upon his
hat! but he was thinking of other
things. There were others for whom
death was in waiting! and some for
whom great labors and deeds were
preparing in life. The troublesome
opponent of Ministers, Mr. Tierney,
who was to be found dead in his study
before the next royal funeral; and
Lord Graves, who was to die by his
own hand, under the provocation of
royal vice or levity. And what tasks
lay before those who were yet to live
and work! Among the six dukes who
bore the pall was he who was to suc
ceed to the highest military office now
thus vacated; and Wellington himself
uo doubt thought this night that he was
of one mind in the great political ques
tion of the day with the prince whose
pall he bore.—No doubt he believed
that he should, in hts proper place, do
what he could to exclude the Catholics,
and to keep the conscience of the sov
ereign fixed upon the Coronation oath,
and his duty to Protestantism; in his
proper place, we say, because the duke
spurned the idea of a military chief
like himself taking civil office, and
openly declared, with indignation at aft
unfounded rumer, that he should be
mad if he dreamed of the Premiership.
Yet, beforo this royal vault Should
again be opened, Wellington was to be
Premier, and use his office to repeal
the disabilities of Catholics. Tru
ly, pledges and prophecies are danger
ous things for statesmen to meddle
with in times of transition: and it would
seem to be a feature in the mission of
the honest and resolute Wellington—
honest and resolute beyond all cavil—
to prove the presumption of pledges
and prophecies in times of transition.
Then there was Peel, with the same
work before him, and much more, of
which he haduot yet begun to dream;
and with tlie fate before him of losing
bis best-beloved honor—the represen
tation of his University— and gaining
several others—-any one of which would
suffice to make an immortality. And
there was Hsrdinge, the friend of both
the deceased and the incoming Com
mander-in-chief, who was to signalise
his age in the history of India by his
administration and achievements both
of peace and war. And there was, as
Chief Mourner he who was to be tha
next King, and in whose reign was to
occur that vital renovation of our
representative system wbieh will he to
thoughtful studenta of a thousand yaar*
hence what Magna Ckarla ia to us.
What a grope was here collected, with
in the curtain of the future, see
■eeing nothing but the vault at their
feet [and the banners of the past wav
ing above their heads; and, wherever
they thought they saw sotne way into
tbe coining time, seeing wrongly
mistaking their own (ancy-painting on
that curtain for discernment of what
was behind it. And behind that veil,
agents work unheard—death at his
grave digging—and the people with
their demands and their acclamations
—and the trumpet voice of conviction
summoning prejudice to the surrender.
But what they saw not, we,as survivors,
see; and what they heard not, we
hear; for now that curtain of futurity
is hung up over our heads as banners
of the past; and the summons of death,
and of the popular will, and of indi
vidual conscience are still audibla to
us—not in their first stunning crack,
but as funeral echoes to which those
banners float.—Jlfi** Martineau.'
THE GOOD MERCHANTS.
The “Sexton of the Old School,”
who writes in the Boston Transcript,
tells the following touching and delight
ful story:
The old standard merchants, who
transacted business on the Long
Wharf, Boston Pier, when I was a boy
—are dead— stelliger —almost every
one of them; and, if all that 1 have
known and heard of them, were fairly
told, it would make a very readable
volume, highly honorable) to many ol
their number, and calculated to operate
as a stimulus upon the profession, in
every age.
One little narrative spreads itself be
fore my memory, at this moment, which
I received from the oaly surviving son
of the individual to whom it especially
refers. A merchant, very extensively
engaged in commerce, and located
upon the Long Wharf, died Feb. 18,
1806, at the age of 75, intestate. His
eldest son administered upon the es
tate. This .old gentleman used plea
santly to say, that, for many years, he
had fed a very large number of the
Catholics, on the shores of the Medi
terrranean, during Lent, referring to
his very extensive connexion with the
fishing business. In his day he was
certainly well known; and, to the
present time, is well remembered, by
some of the “old ones down along the
shore,” from the Gurnet’s Nose to
Race Point. Among his papers, a
package, of very considerable size,
was found, after his death, carefully
tied up, and labelled as follows:
“Notes, due-bills, and accounts against
sundry persons, down along shore.
Some of these may be got by s ult or
severe dunning. But the people are
poor: most of them hate had fishermen's
luck. My children ttill do as they think
best. Perhaps they will tfiink with me,
that it is best to bum this package en
tire.”
“About a month,’’said my informant,
“after our father died, the sons met
together, and, after some genera)
remarks, our elder brother, the admin
istrator, produced this package, ol
whose ojfistence we were already ap
prized; read the superscription; and
asked what course should be taken, ip
regard to it. Another brother, a few
years younger than the eldest, a man
of strong, impulsive temperament, un
able, at the moment, to express his
feeling, by words, while he brushed
the tears from his eyes with 009 hand,
by a spasmodic jerk of the other, to
wards the fire place, indicated his wish
to have the package put into the
flames. It was suggested, by another
of our number, that it might be well,
first, to make a list of the debtors’
names, and of the dates, and amounts,
that we might be enabled, as the in
tended discharge was for all, to inform
such as might offer payment, that their
debts were forgiven. On the following
day, we again assembled—the list had
been prepared—and all the notes, due
bills, and accounts, whose amount, in-
I eluding interest, exceeded thirty-two
thousand dollars, wire committed to
the flames.”
“It was about four months after our
father’s death,” continued my infor
mant, “in the month of June, that, as
I was sitting in my eldest brother’s
counting room, waiting for an oppor
tunity to speak with him, there came
in a hard-favored, little, old man, who
looked as if time and rough weather
had been to windward of him for
seventy years. He asked if my bro
ther was not the executor. He replied,
that he was administrator, as our lather
died intestate. ‘Well,’ said the strang
er, ‘l’ve come up from the Cape to
pay a debt 1 owed the old gentleman.’
My brother,” continued my informant,
“requested him to take a seat, being at
the moment engaged with other per
sons, at the desk.
The old man sat down, and, putting
on his glasses, drew out a very ancient
leather pocket book, and began to
count over his money. When he had
done—and there was quite a parcel of
bank notes —as he sat, waiting bis
turn, slowly twisting his thumbs, with
his old grey, meditative eyes upon the
floor, he sighed; and 1 knew the
money, as the phrase runs, cap}e hard
-—and secretly wished the old man's
name might be found upon the forgiven
list. My brother was soon at leisure,
and asked him the common question—
his name, &c. The original debt was
four hundred and forty dollars—it had
stood a long time, and, with the in
terest, amounted to a sum, between
seven and eight hundred. My brother
went to bis desk, and, after examining
the forgiven list attentively, a sudden
smile lighted up his countenance, and
told me the truth, at a glance—the old
man’s name was there! My brother
quietly took a chair, by his side, and a
conversation ensued between them,
which I never shall forget. “Your
note is outlawed,” said my brother; “it
w«s dated twelve years ago, payable
in two years; there is no witness, and
no interest has ever been paid; you are
not bound to pay this note—we cannot
recover the amount.” “Sir,” said the
old man, “I wish to pay it. It is the
only heavy debt I hare in the world. It
may be outlawed here, but hare no
child, aad my old woman end I hope
we hare made our peace with God,
and wish to do so with num. I should
like to P*/ it”—and hit his bank
notes bt' tore nay brother, requesting
him to covii?t them ov er “I cannot
take this ratiney,* 1 said my brother.
The old tram tiefearae alarmed. “I
have cast simple interest, for twelve
years ahd a little‘ over,” said the old
man. “I will rerjaay you compound in
terest, if you say* so. The debt ought
to have been paid Jong ago, but your
father, sir, was very indulgent—he
knew I’d been unducky, and told me
not to worry about it.”
My brother then set the whole mat
ter plainly before him, and, taking the
bank bills, returned them to the old
man’s pocket-book, telling him that,
although our father left no formal will,
he had recommended to his cihldren to
destroy certain notes, due-bills, and
other evidences of debt, and release
those who might be legally bound to
pay them. For a moment the worthy
old man appeared to be stupefied.
After he had collected himself, and
wiped a few tears from his eyes, he
stated, that, from the time he had heard
of our father’s death, he had raked and
scraped, and pinched and spared, to
get the money together, for the pay
ment of this debt—*‘Aboiit ten days
ago,” said he, "Ihad made up the sum
within twenty dollars. My wife knew
how much the payment of this debt lay
on my spirits, and advised me to sell a
cow, and make up the difference, and
get the heavy burthen off my spirits. I
did so—and now, what will my old wo
man say! I must get back to the Cape,
and tell her this good news. She’ll
probably say over the very words she
said, when she put her hand on my
shoulder as we parted—l have never
seen the righteous man forsaken, nor
his seed begging bread.’ After a hearty
shake of the hand, and a blessing upon
our old father’s memory, he went upon
his way rejoicing.
After a short silence—taking his
pencil and making a cast—‘there,’ said
my brother, ‘your part of the amount
would be so much—contrive a plan to
convey to me your share of the plea
sure, derived from this operation, and
the money is at your service.’
Such is the simple tale, which I have
toid, as it was told to me.
THE ADVENT OF SPRING.
The spring came, and brought the
birds, and (he flowers, and the new
clergyman, who was ordained with all
the pomp and ceremony usual on such
occasions. The opening of the season
furnished also the theme of his first dis
course, which some of the congrega
tion thought very beautiful, and others
very incomprehensible. “Ah, how
wonderful 19 the advent of spring—the
great annual miracle of the blossoming
of Aaron’* rod, repeated on myriads
and myriads of branches I—the gentle
progression and growth of herbs, flow
ers, trees, —gentle, and yet irrepres
sible, which no force can stay, no
yiolence restrain, like love, that wins
its way and cannot be withstood by
any human power, because itself is di
vine powea.. If spring caine but once
in a century, instead of once a year,
or burst forth with the sound of an
earthquake, and not in silence, what
wonder aad expectation would there be
in all hearts to behold the miraculous
phangc! But now the silent succession
suggests nothing bqt necessity. To
most men only the cessation of the
miracles wouiu be miraculous, and the
perpetual exercise of God’s power
seems less wonderful than its withdraw
al would l?e.”
Such was the train of thought with
which Karanah commenced his ser
mon) apd then, with deep solemnity
and emotion, he proceeded to speak of
the spring ot the soul, as from its
ppperlcss winter distance it turns
nearea ani nearer to the great Sun,
and clothis its dry and withered
branches wew with leaves, and blos
soms, unfolded from within itself, be
neath the penetrating and irresistible
influence.— Longfellow's ffavanah,
A Faeily in Heaven. —A whole
family united in religion—what a spec
tacle of beauty on earth! A family
lying side by side in their graves, to be
united again in the same blessed resur
rectiop-r—what a spectacle for angels
to look down upon with interest! A
whole family united in heaven—who
can describe their everlasting joys?
Not one is absent. Nor father, nor
mother, nor son, nor daughter, are
away. In the world below they were
united in faith, and love, and peace,
and joy. In the morning of the re
surrection they ascended together.
Refore the throne they bow together in
united adoratiop. On tKe banks of the
river of life they walk band in hand, and
as a family they have commenced a
career of glory which shall be ever
lasting. There is to he hereafter no
separation io that family. No one is
to lie down on a bed of pain. No one
w to wander away into temptation. No
one is to sipk into the arms of death.
Never in heaven is that family to move
along in the slow procession, clad in
the habiliments of wo, to consign one
of its members to the tomb. God
grant of his infinite mercy that every
family may be thus united.—Her. Al
bert Bonus.
Russian Roguery. —A gentleman of
St. Pctersburgh, buying a cap, selec
ted one of an unusual shape from the
hatter's counter, and after much hag
gling purchased it; although it had
been made to order, and the party for
whom it was intended was expected
to fetch it momentarily, To secure it
the gentleman put it on his head and
departed.—ln the course of his walk,
he found ia bis pocket a snuff-box
which did not belong to him, and whieh
he knew was not there a short time be
fore ;he could not account for it; pre
sently he drew forth a strange hand
kerchief, and shortly afterwards he
found himself enriched with a pocket
book. Suspicioua of these additions to
his property, he determined to stroll
leisurely about to watch the result; at
length from the quantity of things
placed softly about bis person, he be
came couvir sed that he was converted
into an ambulatory receiver of stolon
good*, of which the cap was the aigo.
He at once made the discovery to the
police, who were not long in turning
the information to account.—- Tkomp