HORACE MANN’S REPLY TO HON.
DANIEL WEBSTER.
In a chronological order, I must now
consider some vitally important views,
which have been submitted by some
members in the House, and by Mr.
Webster and others in the Senate. In
mentioning the name of this great
statesman, and in avowing that 1 am
one among the many whom his recent
ly expressed opinions have failed to
convince, it is due myself, however in
different it may be to him or to his
friends, that I should express ray ad
miration of his powers, my gratitude
for his past services, and the diffidence
with which I disseuted,| at first, from
his views. But J have pondered upon
them long, and the longer I have pon
dred the more questionable they ap
pear. I shall therefore venture upon
the perilous task of inquiring into their
correctness; and while I do it with the
deference and respect which|belong to
his character, I tjhall do it also with
that fidelity to conscience and to judg
ment that belong to mine. He is great,
but truth is greater then us all.
I shall confine myself mainly, and
wholly perhaps, to Mr. Webster’s
views, because he has argued the
cause of the South wilh vastly more
ability than it has been argued by any
one among themselves. If his conclu
sions, then, be not tenable, their case
is lost.*
Mr. Webster casts away the “Pro
viso” altogether. He says “if a reso
lution or a law were now before us to
provide a territorial government for
New Mexico, I would not vote to put
any prohibition into it whatever.” p.
55. The reason given is, that slavery
is already excluded from “California
and New Mexico” “by the law of na
ture, of physical geography, the law of
the formation of tha earth ;”p. 42.
California and New Mexico are Asiatic
in their formation and scenery. They
are composed of vast ridges of moun
tains of enormous height, with broken
ridges and deep valleys;” p. 43.
Now this is drawing moral conclu
sions from physical premises. It is
arguing from physics to metaphysics.
It is determiuing the law of the spirit by
geographical phenomena. It is under
taking to settle by mountains and
rivers, and not by the Ten Command
ments, a great question of human duty.
It abandons the secondcommandment of
Christ, and all Bills of Rights enacted
in conformity thereto, and leaves our
obligations to our “neighbor” and all
human rights to be determined by the
accidents of earth and water and air.
To ascartain whether a people will
obey the command of Christ, and do
to others as they would be done by, it
looks at the thermometer. What a
problem would this be? “Required
the height above the level of the sea,
At which the oppressor ‘will undo the
heavy burdens and let the oppressed
So free,, and break every yoke’— to be
etermined barometrically.” Alas! this
cannot be done.—Slavery depends, not
upon climate, but upon conscience.
Wherever the wicked passions of the
human heart can go, there slavery can
go. Slavery is an effect. Avarice,
■loth, pride, and the love of domination
are its cause. In ascending mountain
•idee, at what altitude do men leave
these passions behind them? Different
*4ll fuy quotations fr«*» Mr. W.bsUr an takes
frost tbs edition of bis spesdi which he dedicat'd
to tbs “People of MessecliueetU.” Amo.e the
■—owns reediafs which bare appeared, I suppose
(Us to he the meet authentic.
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX— TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
vegetable growths are to be found at
different heights, depending also upon
the zone. This I can understand.
There is the altitude of the palrn, the
altitude of the oak, tbe 4 altitude of the
pine, and far above them all the line
of perpetual snow. But in regard to
ionocence and guilt, where is the white
line? How high up can a slaveholder
go and not lose his free agency At
what elevation will the whip fall from
the hand of the master, and the fetters
from the limbs of the slave There is no
such point. Freedom and slavery nn
the one band, and climate and geology
on the other, are incommensurable
quantities. We might as well attempt
to determine a question[in theology by
the cube root, or a question in ethics
by the Black Art. Slavery .being a
crime founded upon human passions,
can go wherever these passions are
unrestrained. It has existed in Asia
from the earliest ages, notwithstanding
its “formation and scenery.” It labors
and groans on the banks of the Ural
mountains now. There are to-day
48,000,000 slaves in Russia, not one
rood of which comes down so low as
the Northern boundary of California
and New Mexico.
Sould it be said that slavery will nto
go into the new territories, because it
is unprofitable, I ask, where is it profit
able? Where is ignorance so profit-*
able as knowledge? W T here is ungodli
ness, gain, even for the things of this
life? How little is the hand worth, at
one end of an arm, if there is not a
brain at the other? Does not Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, and other
States lurnish witnesses by thousands
and tens of thousands, that slavery
impoverishes? Yet with what enthusi
asm they cherish it! Generally, igno
rance is a necessary concomitant of
slavery. Of white persons over 20
years ago, unable to read and write,
there were, according to the last cen
sus, 58.757 in Virginia, 50,609 in
North Carolina, 58,513 in Tennessee,
and so forth. I have a letter before
me, received this morning, dated in
Indiana, in which the writer says he
removed from North Carolina in 1802,
when he was 14 years old, and at that
time he had never seen a newspaper in
his life. Can there bo genius, the in
ventive talent, or profitable labor,
where ignorance is so dense? Can the
oppression that tramples out voluntary
industry, intelligence, enterprise, and
the desire of independence, conduce to
riches?—Yet this is done wherever
slavery exists, and is part and parcel of
its working. Is any other form of rob
bing profitable? Yet individuals and
communities have practiced it and
lived by it, and we may as well rely
upon a “law of physical geography” to
arrest the one as the other. It is not
poetry, but literal truth, that the breath
of the slave blasts vegetation, his tears
poison the earth, and his groans strike
it with sterility. It would be easy to
show why the master does not abandon
slavery, even amid the desolation with
which it has surrounded him. There
is a combination of poverty and pride,
which slavery produces on thejdoctrine
of natural appetence, and which, there
fore, it exactly fits. The helplessness
of the master in regard to all personal
wants, seems to necessitate the slavery
that has begotten it. All moral and
religious principles are lowered till
they conform to the daily practice.
Custom blinds conscience, until, with
out any attempt to emancipate or
ameliorate their victims, man can
preach and hold slaves, as Yorick
jests and sings over gravedigging.
But slavery cannot go into California
or New Mexico, because their staple
productions are not “tobacco, cane,
cotton, or rice,” (p. 44.) These are
agricultural products. But is slave
labor confined to agriculture? Suppose
that predial slavery will not |become
common in the new territories. Can
not mental? If slaves cannot do field
work, cannot they do house-work?
There is an opening for 100,000 slaves
to-day, in the new territories, for pur
poses of domestic labor. And beyond
this, let me ask, who possesses any
such geological vision that at the dis
tance of a thousand miles he can pene
trate the the valleys and gorges of
New Mexico; and say that gold will
not yet be found there as it is in Cali
fornia—not in sand and gravel only,
but in forty-eight pounders and fifty
sixes? This is the very kind of labor
on which slaves, in all time, have been
so extensively employed—the very la
bor on which a million of slaves in His
paniola lost their lives, within a few
years after its discovery by Columbus.
Gold deposites are now worked within
25 miles of Santa Fe. The last account
which I have seen, of a company of
emigrants passing iron/* Santa Fe to
California, by the riveftlfeila, announ
ces rich discoveries of gold upon that
river.
A fellow citizen of mine has just re
turned home, who says he saw a slave
sold at the mines in California, in
September last. As, yet, the distant
regions of the Gila and the Colorado
cannot be worked, because of the
Apaches, the Utah, and other tribes of
Indians. But admit slavery there, and
the power of the government will be
invoked to exterminate these Indians,
as it was before to exterminate the
Cherokees and Seminole*—not to drive
them beyond the Mississippi, but be
yond the Styx. A few days since a
letter was published in the papers,
dated on board a steamer descending
the .Mississippi, which stated that a
considerable number of slaves were on
board, for California, under an agree
ment with their master that they should
be free after serving two years at the
mines. We know, too, that the reasoD
assigned for incorporating a provision
in the constitution of California, au
thorising its Legislature to pass a law
for the exclusion of free blacks from
the States was, that slaves would
be brought there under this very form
of agreement, and by aod by, the coun
try would be overspread by people ot
color who bad bought tbeir freedom.
The sagacious men who framed the
California constitution came from ail
P&i'tii of the territory) and, being col
lected on the spot, having surveyed
all its mountains, having breathed its
air at all temperatures, and turned up
its golden soil, —these men had never
discovered any “law of physioal
geography” which the fell spirit of
slavery could not transgress. Slaves
were carried into Oregon, ten degrees
of latitude higher up. Its colonists re
enacted the Ordinance of 1787, before
Congress gave them a territorial gov
ernment. In the territorial govern
ment that was given them, the prohibi
tion was inserted; and President Polk
signed the bill with an express protest,
that he ratified this exclusion of slavery
only because the country lay north of
the Missouri compromise line—but that
had it embraced the very region in
question, he would have vetoed the
bill.
Gen. Cass never took the ground
that slavery could not exist in the new
territories; and no inconsiderable part
of the opposition made by him in Mas
sachusetts and in other States, was
placed expressly upon the ground that
he would not prohibit it. Mr. Webs
ter, In his Marshfield speech, Sept. 1,
1848, opposed the election of Gen.
Cass, because, through his recreancy
to Northern principles, slavery would
invade the territories. This was ex
pressed with the usual clearness and
force, as follows:
“He [Gen. Cass,] will surely have
the Senate; and with the patronage of
the government, with every interest
that he, as a Northern man, can bring
to bear, co-operating with every in
terest that the South can bring to bear,
we cry safety before we are out of the
woods, if we feel that there is no dan
ger as to those new territories.”
Yet Mr. Webster now sa>s that to
support the “Proviso,” would “do dis
grace to his own understanding.” (p.
46.)
During the same campaign, also,
the Hon. Rufus Choate, one of the
mosi eloquent men in New England,
and known to be a personal friend of
Mr. Webster, delivered a speech at
Salem, in which the following passage
occurs:—
“It is the passage of a law to say
that California and New Mexico shall
remain forever free. That is fellow
citizens, undoubtedly, an object of
great and transcendent importance;
for there is none who will deny that
we should go up to the very limits of
the Constitution itself, and with the
wisdom of the wisest and the zeal of
the most zealous, should unite to ac
complish this great object, and to de
feat the always detested, and forever
to be detested, object of the dark ambi
tion of that candidate of the Baltimore
Convention, who has ventured to
pledge himself in advance that he will
veto the future law of freedom; and
may God avert the madness of all who
hate slavery and love freedom, that
would unite in putting him in the place
where this thrice accursed pledge inay
be redeemed! .Is
there a Whig upon this floor who
doubts that the strength of the Whig
party next March, will insure freedom,
to California and New Mexico, if by
the Constitution they are entitled to
freedom at all? Is there a member of
Congress that would not vote for free
dom? You know there is not one.
Did not every Whig member of Con
gress from the free States vote at the
last session for freedom? You know
that every man returned home covered
with the thanks of his constituents for
that vote. Is there a single Whig
constituency in any free. State in this
country, that would return any man
that would not vote for freedom? Do
you believe that Daniel Webster him
self could be returned, if there was the
least doubt upon the question?”
Mr. Choate then adds:—“Upon this
question, alone we always difler from
those Whigs of the South; and on that
one, we propose simply to vote him
down.” Mr. Webster now says he
will not join in voting them down.
Under such circumstances it is
frivolous or captious to ask for some
thing more than dogmatic assertion
that slavery cannot impregnate these
new regions, and cause them to breed
monsters forever
On a subject of such infinite impor
tance I cannot be satisfied with a dic
tum I want a demonstration. I cannot
acceptthe prophecy without inquiring
what spirit inspired the prophet. As a
revelation from heaven it would bn
most delightful; but as it conflicts with
all human experience, it requires at
least one undoubted miracle to attest
the divinity of its orgm.
According to the last census, there
were more than eight thousand persons
of African blood in Massachusetts.
Abolish the moral and religious con
victions of our people, let slavery ap
pear to be in their sight not only law
ful and creditable, but desirable as a
badge of aristocratic distinction, and
a« a “political, social, moral, and re
ligions blessing,” and what obstacle
would prevent these eight thousand
persons from being turned into slaves,
ton anj day, by the easy, cheap and
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, MAY 30, 1850.
short-hand kidnapping of a legislative
act? Africans can exist here for th<
best of all realona,—they do exisi
here, k state af slavery would not
stop their rospiidtion, nor cause then
to vanish “intofhin air.” Think, foi
a moment, of this complaints we con
stantly hear in certain circles, of th«
difficulty and vaxatiousness of com
manding domestic service. If no mora
or religious objection existed againsl
holding slaves, would not many oi
those respectable and opulent gentle
men who signed the letter of thanks to
Mr. Webster, and hundreds of other*
indeed, instead of applying to intelli
gence offidfs, or visiting emigrant
ships, for domestics, as we cell them,
go at once to the auction-room, an<3
buy a man or a woman, with as little
hesitancy or compunction as they now
send to Brighton ior beeves, or to Tat
tersall’s for a horse? If the cold of the
higher latitudes checks the flow ol
African blosd, or benumbs African
limbs, the slaveholder knows very well
that a trifling extra expense for whips
will make up foible difference.
But suppose a doubt could be rea
sonably entertained about the invasion
of the new territories by slavery. Even
suppose the chances to preponderate
against it. What then? Are we to
submit a question of human liberty,
over yast regions and for an indefinite
extent of tine, to the determination ol
chance? With all my faculties 1 say
No! Let me ask any man, let me re
spectfully ask Mr. Webster himself, if
it were his own father and mother,
and brothers and sisters, and sons and
daughters, who were in peril of such
a fate, whether he would abandon
them to chance, —even to a favorable
chance. Would he suffer their fate to
bedetermiied by dice or divination,
when positive prohibition was in his
power? Asd by what rule of Christian
morality, or even of enlightened hea
then morality, can we deal differently
with the kindred of others from what
we would with our own? He is not a
Christian whose humanity is bounded
by the legal degrees of blood, or by
general types of feature.
But Mr. Webster would not “taunt”
the South. Neither would I. I would
not taunt any honorable man, much
less a criminal. Still, when the most
precious interests of humanity are in
peril, 1 would not be timid. I would
not stop too long to cull lovers’ phrases.
Standing under the eye of God, in the
forumof the world and before the august
tribunal of posterity, when the litigants
are Freedom and Tyranny, and human
happiness and human misery, the prize
they contest, it should happen to the
sworn advocates of Liberty, as Quin
tiilian says it did to Isocrates, “not
to speak and to plead, bnt to thunder
and to lighten.” Mr. Webster would
not taunt the South; and yeti say the
South were never so iusulted before
as he has insulted them. Common
scoffs, jeers, and vilifications, are flat
tery and scophancy, compared with the
indignities he heaped upon them. Look
at the facts. The South waged war
with Mexico from one and only one
motive; for one and only one object—
the extension of Slavery. They refused
peace unless the surrendered territory.
That territory must be south of the ab
horred line of 36 deg. 30 min. The
sumc President who abandoned the
broad belt of country on our northern
frontier, from 40 deg. to 54 deg. 40m.
to which we had, in his own words,
“an unquestionable title,” would allow
no prohibition of slavery to be imposed
upon the territory which Mexico ceded,
though she would bury it a foot deep
in gold. The Proviso had been resis
ted in all forms, from the beginning.
Southern Whigs voted against the
ratification of the treaty, foreseeing the
struggle that was to follow. Desperate
efforts were made to smuggle in an
unrestricted territorial government,
against all parliamentary-rule and all
constitutional implication. The whole
South, as one man, claimed it as a
“describabie, weighable, estimable,
tangible,” and most valuable “right,”
to carry Slaves there. Calhoun, Ber
rien, Badger, Mason, Davis, —the
whole Southern phalanx, Whig and
Democrat, pleaded for it, argued for it
and most of them declared themselves
ready to fight for it; and yet Mr. Web
ster rises in his place and tells them
they are alt moon-struck, hallucinated,
fatuous, because “an ordinance of Na
iure asd the will of God” had settled
this question from the beginning of the
World. Mr. Calhoun said, immediately
after this speech, “Give us free scops
and time enough, and we will take
care of the rest.”
Mr. Mason said
“We have .heard here from various
quarters, and from high quarters, and
repeated on all hands—repeated here
again to-day by the honorable Senator
from Illinois, (Mr. Shields,) that there
is a law of nature which excludes the
Southern people from every portion of
the State of California. I know of no
such law of nature—none whatever;
but 1 do know the contrary, that if
California had been organized with a
Territorial form of Government only,
and for which, at the last two sessions
of Congress, she has obtained the en
tire Soutnern vote, the people of the
Southern Stetes would have gone there
freely, and have taken their slaves
there in great numbers. They would
have done ao because the value of the
labor of that class would have been
augmented to them many hundredfold.
Whv, in the debates which took place
in the Convention in California, which
formed the Constitution, and which
any Senator can now read for himself,
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
after the provision excluding Slaver]
was agreed upon it was proposed t<
prohibit the African race altogether
free as well as bond. A debate aros<
upon it; and the ground was distinctly
taken, as shown in those debates, thai
if the entire African race was not ex
cluded, their labor would be found st
valuable that the owners of slavet
would bring them there, even thougl
Slavery were prohibited, a under con
tract to manumit them in two or three
years. And it required very little rea
soning on the part of those opposed tc
this class of population, to show that
the productiveness of their labor would
be such as to cause that result. An
estimate was gone into with reference
to the value of the labor of this class oi
people, snowing that it would be in
creased to such an extent in the mines
of California, that they could not be
kept out. It was agreed that the labor
of a slave in any one of the States from
which they would be taken, was not
worth more than one hundred and fifty
dollars a year, and that in California
it would be worth from four to six
thousand dollars. They would work
themselves free in one or two years,
and thus the country would be filled by
a class of free blacks, and their former
owners have an excellent bargain in
bringing them there.”
Yet Mr. Webster stands up before
all this array, and says: “Gentlemen,
you are beside yourselves. You have
eaten hellebore. You would look
more in character should you put on
the ‘cap and bells.’ In sober sense,
in seeing his object clearly and in pur
suing it directly, Don Q.uixote| was
Dr. Franklin, compared with you.
The dog in the fable, who dropped his
meat to snap at its shadow, is no al
legory in your case. I see two classes
around me—wise men and fools; you
do not belong to the former. The
Chancellor who keeps the king’s idiots
should have custody of you.” Such
is a faithful abstract of what Mr. Web
ster said to Southern Senators, and
through them to all the South.
Here certainly was u reflection upon
the understanding and intelligence ol
the South, such as never was cast on
them before. But the balm went with
the sting. They bore the affront to
their judgments, because it was so
grateful to their politics and pockets.
1 think it no injustice to those Senators
to say, that they would have nearly
torn him in pieces for such a collective
insult, if it had not added fifty per
cent, to their individual property,- and
secured and perpetuated their political
ascendency.
To help our conceptions in regard
to Mr. Webster’s course on this sub
ject, let us imagine a parallel case, —or
rather, an approximate one, for there
can be no parallel. Suppose a contest
between the North and the South, on
the subject of the Tariff, to have been
raging for years. The sober blood of
the North is heated to the fever point.
The newspapers treat of nothing else.
—Public meeting’s and private conver
sation discuss no other theme. Hun
dreds of delegatee wait upon Congress,
to add if it be but a feather’s weight,
to the scale which holds their interests.
Petitions flow in, in thousands and tens
of thousands. It is announced that
Mr. Calhoun will pour out his great
mind on the subject. Expectation is
on tiptoe. All eyes, from all sides of
the country, are turnedfowards Wash
ington, as the Muazziu’s is to Mecca.
The Senate chamber is packed, and
the illustrious Senator rises. After a
historic sketch of existing difficulties;
after reading from the speeches which
he made in 1832, and in 1846,.he pro
ceeds to flay that he withdraws all op
position to a tariff, to any tariff! He
will not offend the delicate nerves of
Northern manufacturers, by further
hostility. Were a bill then before
him he would not oppose it. “Take
the schedules,” says he scornfully, to
Northern Senators,” and fill up the
blanks from A to Z with what percent
ages you please. For ad valorem rates
put in nunimums and maximum*, at
your pleasure. 1 will ‘taunt’ you no
longer, I am for peace and the
glorious Union. I have discovered an
irrepealable and irreversible law of
nature, which overrules all the devices
of men. You cannot make one yard
of woolens or cottons in New England.
There, water has no gravity, steam has
no force, and wheels will not revolve.
In Vermont and New York, wool will
not grow on sheep’s backs. I have
penetrated the geology of Pennsyl
vania, and through all iu straii£o«
tions, there is not a thimble-full of coal,
nor an ounce of iron ore; and, if there
wrre, combustion would not help to
forge it; for oxygen and carbon are di
vorced. As Massachnsetts contributed
one-third of the men and one-third of
the money, to carry on the Revolution
ary War, I am willing [to compensate
her for her lost blood and treasure, to
the amount ofhundreds of millions of
dollars, with which she ma.y fertilize
the barrenness of her genius, and in
dulge her insane love for churches and
schools.” Had the great Southern
Senator spoken thus, 1 think that even
idolatrous, manworshipping South
Carolina—a State which Mr. Calhoun
has ruled and moved for the last twen
ty-five years, as a puppet-show man
plays Punch and Judy—would have
sent forth through all her organs, a
voice of unanimous dissent.
As much as Freedom is higher than
Tariff, so much stronger than their
dissent should be ours.
Mr. Webster’s averment that he
would not “re-effirm an ordinance of
Nature, nor re-enact the will of God,"
[p. 44] has been commented on mor<
pungently than 1 am able or willini
to do. It has been said that all lav
and all volition must be in harmonj
with the will of the Good Spirit 01
with that of the Evil One; and, if w<
will not re-enact the will of the former,
theu either all legislation ceases, pr w<
must register the decrees of the latter.
But one important and pertinent cons'i<J
belongs to this subject, which J
have nowere seen developed. It is
this: Endless doubts and contradiction*
exist among men, as to what is the
will of God; and on no subject is there
a wider diversity of opinion than on
this very subject ef-slavery. Whose
law wasjre-enacted by
of 1787? whose, when the African
slave-trade was prohibited? whose
when it was declared piracy True,
it is useless to put upon our statute
books an astronomical law, regulating
sunrise, or high tides; but that is phy
sical and beyond the jurisdiction of
man, while slavery belongs to morals,
and is within the jurisdiction of man.
Cease to transcribe upon the statute
book what our wisest and best men
believe to be the will of Ged in regard
to our worldly affairs, and the passions
which we think appropriate to devils
will soon take possession of society.
In regard to slavery, piracy, and so
forth, their are multitudes of men,
whose fear of the penal sanctions of
another life is very much aided by a
little salutary fine and imprisonment
in this. Look at the noble array of
principles which is contained in the
Declaration of Rights in the Constitu
tion of Massachusetts. Is it not a
most grand and beautiful exposition of
“the will of God,” —a transcript, as it
were, from the book of Life? So of
the amendments to the Constitution ol
the United States. Yet our fathers
thought it no tampering with holy
things to enact them; and, in times of
struggle and peril, they have been to
many a tempted man as an anchor to the
soul, sure and steadfast.
I approach Mr. Webster’s treat
ment of the Texas question, with no
ordinary anxiety. Having been ac
customed from my very boyhood to re
gard him as the almost infallible ex
pounder of constitutioual law, it is im
possible to describe the struggle, the
revulsion of mind, with which I have
passed from an instructed and joyous
acquiescence in his former opinions, to
unhesitating dissent from his present
ones.
I must premise that I cannot See
any necessary or beneficial connection
between the subject of new Texan
States and the admission of California
and the government of the territories.
The former refers to some indefinite
future, when, from its fruitful womb o
slavery, Texas shall seek to castf
forth its untimely birth. In this excit
ed state of the country—at this critical
juncture ef our affairs, when there is
sober talk of massacreing a majority
of the House ol Representatives, on
their own floor, and a Senator, instead
of threatening to hang a brother Sen
ator on the highest tree, provided he
could catch him in his own State, now
draws a revolver of six barrals on an
other brather Senator, on the floor of
the Senate, in mid session;—at such a
-time, I say, when, however few Abels
there may be at work in the political
field, there are Cains more than
enough, would it not have been well
to have said, "Sufficient unto the day
is the evil therefore
As the basis of this argument, Mr.
Wsbster quotes the following resolu
tion:
"New States of convenient size, not
exceeding four in number, in addition
to said State of Texas, and having suf
ficient population, may hereafter, by
the consent of said State, be formed
eut of that portion of said territory ly
ing south 36 30 north latitude, com
monly known as the Missouri compro
mise line, shall be admitted into the
Union with or without slavery, as the
people of each Stale asking admission
may desire; and in such State or
States as shall be formed out of said
territory north of said Missouri com
promise line, slavery, or involutary
servitude N except for crime) shall be
prohibited,”
Note here, first, that only "four”
States are to be admitted in "addition
to said State of Texas;” and second,
that "such State or States (in the
plural) as shall be formed from
territory North of 36deg. 30min. shall
be free. If two, or only one free State
is <o exist on tb* wsult mi Am mf tbs lino,
then how many will be left for the south
side? 1 should expose myself to ridi
cule were 1 to set down arithmetically,
four minus one, equal to three. Yet
Mr. Webster says, "the guaranty is,
that new States shall be made out of it
[the Texan territory] and that such
States as are formed out of that por
tion ofTexas, lying south of 36deg.
30min., may come in as slave States,
to the number of four, in addition to
the State then in existence, and ad
mitted at that time by these resoiu
tions,” p. 39.
Here Mr. Webster gives outright,
to the South and to slavery, one more
State than was contracted lor,-.assum
ing the contract to be valid. He
makes rdonation, a gratuity, of an en
tire slave State, larger than many a
European principality. He transfers
a whole State, with all its beating
hearts, present and future, with all its
infinite susceptibilities of weal or woe,
from the side ot freedom to that of sla
very, in the leger-book of humanity.
Wlfat a-bridal gift for the harlot o
JOHN DICK, Funtb*
WHOLE NO. 127.
Was not the bargain hard enough,
according to its terms? Must we ful
fil it, and go beyond it? Is a slare
State, which dooms our brethren of tha
human race, perhaps interminably, to
the vassal’s/ate, so insignificant a trifle,
that it may be flung in, as small
change on the settlement of an ac
count? Has the South been so gen
erous a copartner, as to deserve this
distinguished token of our gratitude?
Why, by a parity of reasoning could
he not have claimed all the four States,
"in addition to said State of Texas,”
as free States? The resolutions di
vide the territory into two parts, onu
north and one south of the line of 36
deg. 30min. Could not Mr. Webster
have claimed four States lor free
dom with as sound logic, and with far
bettor humanity than he surrendered
them to slavery? When Texas and
the South have got their slave States
"to the number of four” inte tho Union,
whence are we to obtaiu our one or
more free States? The contract will
have been executed, and the consent
of Texas for another State will be
withheld.
Notwithstanding all this, Mr. Web
ster affirms the right of slavery to four
more States, in the following words:
“1 know no form of legislation which
can strengthen this. I know no mode
of recognition that can add a tittle of
weight to it.” Catching the tone of his
asservation, I respond, that I know no
form of statement, nor process of rea
soning, which can make’ it more clear
that this is an absolute and wanton
surrender of the rights of the North,
and the rights of humanity.
But I hold the Texan resolutions to
have been utterly void; and proceed to
give the reason for my opinion.
I begin by quoting Mr. Webster
against himself. In an Address to the
people of the United States, from the
Mass. Anti-Texas Sfate Convention,
Jan. 29th 1845, the subjoined passage,
which is understood, or rather, I may
say, is now well known, to have been
dictated by Mr. Webster himself, may
be found:
“But we desire not to be misunder
stood. According to our convictions,
there is no power in any branch of the
Government, or all its branches, to an
nex foreign territories to this Union.
We have made the foregoing remarks
only to show, that, if any fair consti
tution could show such a power to ex
ist anywhere, or to be exercised in
any form, yet the manner of its exer
cise now proposed, is destitute of all de
cent semblance of constitutional proprie
ty”
Thus cancelling the authority of Mr.
Webster in 1850 by the authority of
Webster in 1845, I proceed with the
argument,
Though the annexation of Texas waa
in pursuance of a void stipulation, yet
it is a clear principle of law that when
a contract void between the parties,
has been executed by them, it cannot
then be annulled. If executed, it be
comes valid, not by virtue of the con
tract, but by virtue of the execution.
I bow to this legal principle, and would
fulfil it. But any independent stipu
lation which remains unexecuted, re
mains invalid. Such is that part of the
annexation resolutions which provides
for the admission of a brood of Texan
states. The resolutions themselves say
in express terms, that the new states
are to be admitted “under the pro
visions ot the Federal Constitution;”
and the Constitution says, “New States
may be admitted by the Congress into
this Union.” By what Congress t
Plainly, by the Congress, in session,
at the time when application for ad
mission is made; and by no other. The
fourth Texan state inay not be ready
for admission for fifiy years to come;
and could the Congress of 1845, bind
the Congress of 1900? The Congress
of 1900, and all future Congresses,
will derive their authority from the Con
stitution of the United States, and not
from any preceding Congress. Put
the case in a negative form. Could the
Congress of 1845 bind all future Con
gress not to admit new states, and thus,
protanto, annul the Constitution? Posi
tive or negative, the result is the same.
No previous Congress, on such a sub
ject, can enlarge or limit the power of
a subsequent one. Whenever, there
fore, the question of a new Texan state
comes up for consideration, the Con
gress then in being must decide it on
its own merits, untrammelled by any
thing the predecessors have done; es
pecially free from a law which, while
im spirit, fa tnousand times
more odious in principle than aftntuea
of mortmain.
Admitting that a future Congress,
on such a subject, might be bound by
a treaty, 1 answer that here was no
treaty; while the fact that a treaty
clause was introduced into the resolu
tions, in the Senate, for the sake of
obtaining certain votes that would nev
er otherwise have been given in their
favor, and under an express pledge
from the Executive that the method
by treaty should be adopted, which
pledge was forthwith iniquitously bro
ken, leaves no element of baseness and
fraud by which this proceeding was
not contaminated. In the name of the
Constitution, then, and of juaticp, let
every honest roan denounce those res
olutions as void, alike in the forum of
law and in the forum of conscience;
and, admitting Texae herself in the
Union, yet, when application is made
for any new state from that territory,
let the question be decided upon the
merits k may then possess.
There is another objection to any fu«
tare claim of Texas to be divided into
states, which grows out of her own
neglect to fulfil the terms and spirit of
the agreement. In the “territory north
of the Missouri Compromise line, sla
very or involuntary servitude, (except 1
for crime) shall be prohibited.” So
reads the bond. But if Texas suffers
slavery to be extended over that part
of her territory, then, when it becomes
populous enough for admission, and is
overspread with slavery, a new state
may present a free constitution, be ad
mitted by Congress, and before the
slaves have time to escape, or to car
ry the question of freedom before the
judicial tribunals, Presto! this free con
stitution will be changed into a slave
constitution, under the alleged right of
a state to decide upon its own domes
tic institutions, and thus the word of
promise which was kept to the ear,
will be broken to the hope. If Texas
meant to abide by the resolutions of
annexation, and to claim anything un
der them, it as her clear and imper
ative duty forthwith to pass a law, se
curing freedom to every inhabitant
north of the Compromise line. In this
way only can the resolutions be
executed in their true spirit. That
territory is now in the condition of an
egg; it is undergoing incubation.
From it a state is hereafter to be
hatched; but before promising to ac
cept the chick, it would be agreeable
to know whether a viper had impreg
nated the egg.
But there is a still further opjection,
of whose soundness I have no doubt;
but should I be in error in regard to
it, the mistake will not invalidate any
other argument. Tho parties to that
agreement stipulated on the ground of
mutuality, without which ail contracts
are void. Some states were to be ad
mitt id to strengthen the hands of sla
very, and some of freedom. A line of
demarcation was drawn. Now, on
iovestication, 1 believe it will most
conclusively appear, that there is not
an inch of Texas territory north of
the stipulated line; it all belongs to
New Mexico, as much as Nantucket
or Berkshire belongs to Massachusetts.
It was a mistake on the part of the
contracting parties; if, on the part of
Texas, it was something worse than a
mistake. The mutuality, then, fails.
The contract is nudvm pactum. Tex
as can give nothing for what she was
to receive; and is, therefore, entitled
to receive nothing but what she has
got.
In regard to “the business of seeing
that fugitives are delivered up.” Mr.
Webster says: “My friend at the head
of the Judiciary Committee (Mr. But
ler, of South Carolina) has a hill on
the subject now before the Senate,
with some amendments to it, which i
propose to supptft-t, with all its provis
ions to (he fullest extent.”
[We published this bill a few weeks since,
and all who read it will remember its main
features.]
It will be observed that the first
section of the hill, after constituting
the judges of the courts, the seventeen
thousand postmasters, the collectors,
and sofQith, as tribunals, without ap
peal, for the delivery of anybody, wti<>
is sworn by any-body, any-wherp, t<
be a fugitive slave, refers to the be
fore mentioned officers in the words
“residing or being within euch Statt
where such seizure or arrest is made.”
That is, the judge, postmaster, collec
tor, &.C., need not to he ar> inhabitant
of the Stale, or hold his office in th«
State, where the seizure is made; but
it is sufficient if he is such officer an)
where within the United States. Mr.
Butler or Mr. Mason, therefore, maj
tend the postmaster of his own city 01
village, into Massachusetts, with an
agent or attorney, who brings his affi
davit from South Carolina or Virginia
in his pocket; the agent or attorney
may arrest any body, at any time, car
ry him before his accomplice, g»
through with the judicial fotros, am'
hurry him to the South; —the officer
after his judicial functions are dischar
ged, turning bailiff, protecting the pre\
d speeding the flight.
••Still further, this bill derides th<
ti.wl by jury secured by the (Jonstitu
tion. A man may not lose a hors,
without a right to this trial; but hi
may his freedom. Mr. Webster speak*
tor the South and for slavery; not fui
the North and for freedom, when In
abandons this right. Such an aban
donment. it would be impossible to be
lieve of one who has earned such fami
as Defender of the Constitution; ii
would be more reasonable to suppose
the existence of some strange misap
prehension, had not Mr. Webster, with
the precision and strength which art
so peculiarly his own, declared his de
termination to support this hideous
bill, with all its provisions, to tht
fullest extent;” when, at the sam.
moment, another bill, of which he took
no notice, wa« pending before the Sen
ate, introduced by Mr. Sewkrd, ol
New York, securing the invaluable
privilege of a jury trial.
1 disdain to avail myself, in sober
argument, of the popular sensitiVenets
on this subject; and I acknowledge mv
obligations to the Constitution* while
it is suffered to last. But still I say,
that the man who can read this till
without having his blood boil in bis
veins, has a power of refrigeration
that would cool the tropics.
I cannot doubt that Mr. Webster
will yet see the necessity of reconsi
dering his position, on this .Whole
question.
Mr. Webster says: “It is my firm
opinion this day, that within th e lasi
twenty years as much money has been
collected and paid to the abolition so
cieties, abolition presses, aud abolition
lecturers, as would purchase the free
dom of every slave, man, womap and
child, in the State of Maryland, and
•end them ail to Liberia.”
The total number of slaves in Mary
land, according to the last sensus,
amounted to 89,475. At $250 apiece
—which ia but about half the value
Cl Btm >tly assigned to the Southern
•laves by Southern men—this woilld be
$22,378,750. Allowing $3O each for
transportation to Liberia, without any
provision for .them after their arrival
there, and the whole sum would be,
$25,058,600 —-in round numbers, twen
ty-five millions oi dollars!—more than
a million and a quarter in each year,
and about five hundred dollars per
l had sot supposed the abolition- j
sts had such resources at their com*
mand.
I have dwelt thus long upon Mr.
Webster's speech, because in connec
ion with his two votes in favor of Mr.
Foote’s Committee of compromise,
which votes, bad they been the other
way, would have utterly defeated the
Committee, it is considered to have
lone more to jeopard the great cause
of freedom in the territories, than any
other event of this disastrous session.
I have spoken of Mr. Webster by
name, and I trust, in none but res
pectful terms. I might have intro
duced other names, or examined bis
positions, without mentioning him. I
have taken what seemed to me the
more manly course; and if these views
should ever by chance fall under his
eye, I believe he has magnanimity
enough to respect me more for the
frankness I have used. If lam wrong,
1 will not add to au error of judgment
the meanness of a clandestine attack.
If I am right, no one can complain;
for we must all bow belore the majesty
of Truth.
Should the North fail, I have stil
one.more hope. It is that New Mex
ico will do for herself what we shal
have basely failed to do for her.—l
both these hopes fail, our country ii
doomed to run its unobstructed car
eer of conquest, of despotism, anc
of infamy.
I have now, ray fellow-citizens
given you my “Views and Opinions’
on the present crisis in our public 'af
fairs. Had I regarded my own feel
ings, 1 should havo spoken less ai
length; but the subject has command
ed ine. I trust I have spoken respect
fully towards those from whom 1 dis
sent, while speaking my own senti
ments justly and truly. I have uset
no asperity, for all my emotions havi
been ot grief and not of anger. Mj
words have been as cool as the tele
graph wires, while my feelings havt
been like the lightning that rum
through them. The idea that Massa
chusetts should contribute, or consent
to the extension of numan Slaver/!
is enough, not merely to arouse thi
living from their torpor, but the deal
from their graves! Were I to kee|
it, nay, did I not oppose it with all thi
powers and faculties which God ha:
given me, I should see myriads of re
cognized faces glaring out upon m<
from the future, more terrible thai
Duncan’s at Macbeth, and I wouli
rather feel an assassin’s poignard it
my breast than forever hereafter t<
see the “air-drawn dagger” of a guil
ty imagination. In Massachusetts
the great drama of the Revolutioi
began. Some of its heroes yet sur
vive amongst us. At Lexington, a
Concord, and on Buuker Hill, thi
grass still grows greener where thi
soil was fattened with the blood of oui
lathers. If, in the providence of God
we must be vanquished in this con
test, let-it be by force of the over
mastering and inscrutable power
above us, snd not by our own bast
desertion.
1 am gentlemen, your much honored
obliged and obedint searvnl,
Horace Mann.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, MAY 30, 1850.
The North Star ir sometimes sent to friend.
aho do not take the paper, in the hope that the;
nay see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions am
lunations for the same may he safely enclosed, ad
iressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester
V. Y.
OtJ*\VARTKD —Several Travelling Agents
o procure subscribers for the North Star. A
iberal commission will be given. None need applj
ait such as can bring good recommendations foi
<ndustry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Acknowledgment.
We beg to return our sincere and heartfelt
icknowledgments to the Ladies of the North
Star Fair Committee in New York, fur the
*mi of four hundred duilira. Considering
he many disadvantages under which they
I iboied, while making their recent effort in
New York, in behalf of our paper, it may
•veil be deemed eminently successful. But
three months fiotn the organization of theii
yommittee intervened before the holding ol
the Fair—a period altogether inadequate for
•ringing out an average display of the taste,
dtill and ingenuity of the ladies of New
York yet the Fair presented an appearance
which would compare favorably wqh that of
jny Fair on the same scale for any ordinary
oenevolent object. But on this point it is not
important that we should speak. We have
no doubt that ihe Committee will have (from
ihe pen of their able and efficient Secretary)
a Report which will do justice to their labors,
is well as to those who sent contributions.
We beg again that the ladies will accept our
>est thanks for ibis valuable donation, which
>hall be faithfully appropriated to the object
f>r which it is designed.
At the same time, we gratefully remember
ihe assistance rendered to the Ladies' Com
mittee, by Prof. Reason of Central College,
and Mr. George T. Downing of New York.
We think, that without their aid, the Fair
could not have been successful. Constant in
their attendance,unwearied in their exertions,
they were at once the right hand men of the
occasion. For this mark of their i<>
our paper, we thank tliem sincerely.
In making these acknowledgments, wc
would not forget the gejerous patrons of the
Fair, with many of whom we had the plea
one to become acquainted. We bog to
Assure each and all that the North Star shall
be, as we believe it has been, a fearless and
faithful defender of the rights and liberties of
our much oppressed and deeply injured peo
ple.—r. d.
To Cos a esro.n deists. A very large pile
letters has accumulated on our table daring
our absence, to which due attention shall be
given as speedily as possible. Those of oar
friends who hive sent subscriptions, may
have feared that their letters had not come to
hand. Tbeir fears will be removed .by see
ing their subectiptions acknowledged in this
aad the next number of the North Star. —r.D.
Notice. —The Yearly Meeting of Con
gregational Friends will be held at Waterloo,
Seaeca Co., N. Y„ at Frienda' Meeting-
H*iuae; commencing on the 8d of 6th mo.,
(Jane.) AU are inv.ttd atteLd.
At Home Again.
Having been, during the past few weeks,
the special object of attack, marked out by a
corrupt and fiendish Press, for assassination,
the victim of a continuous train of almost
unprecedented abuse—harraseed and dogged
from day to day by the furious blood
hounds of American Slavery,—l should be
something more ,than a Stoic, if I did not
feel and acknowledge- a sense of profound
gratitude to the God of the oppressed, that 1
am again permitted safely to occupy my
editorial chair. Never since the day I enter*
ed the field of public effort in the cause of my
enslaved brethren, have I been called to en
dure persecution more bitter, insults mors
brutal, violence more fierce, acorn aod con
tempt more malicious and -demoniacal, than
that heaped upon me in the city of New
York, during the past three weeks. I have
been made to fee 1 keenly that I am in an
enemy’s land—surrounded on all aides by
hardships, difficulties and dangers—that on
the side of the oppressor there is powei,
and that there are few to take up the cause
of my deeply injured and down-trodden
peoplo. These things grieve, but do not
appal me. Not an inch will 1 retreat— not
one jot of steal will I abate—not one word
will I retract; and, in the strength of God,
while the red current of life flows through
my veins, I will continue to labor for the
downfall of slavery and the freedom of my
race. lam denounced as an offender. lam
not ignorant of my offences. I plead guilty
to the worst of those laid to my charge.
Amplified as they have been, enormous as
they are alleged to be, 1 do not shrink from
looking them full in the face, and gloiying
in having committed them. My crime is,
that I have assumed to be a man, entitled
to all the rights, privileges and dignity,
which belong to human nature —that color
r is no crime, and that all men are brothers.
I have acted on this presumption. The very
head and front of my offending hath this
extent —no more.” I have not merely talked
of human brotherhood and human equality,
but have reduced that talk to practice. This
I have done in broad open day, scorning con
j cealment. I have walked through the streets
of New York, in company with white per
sons, not as a menial, but as an equal. This
s was done with no purpose to inflame the
public mind not to provoke popular viol*
eitce not to make a display of my contempt
1 for public opinion but simply as a matter of
course, and because it was right so to do.
1 The right to associate with my fellow worms
of the dust, on terms of equality, without
regard to color, is a right which I will yield
only with my latest breath.
My readers will have observed, in the
t Vorth Star of last week an account of a
i most cowardly assault made upon tne iu the
Battery at New York. Like most other
r statements wiiich emanate from the American
press, this one (though partly true) is false
in several particulars. It is not true tbit I
s walked down Broadway with two white fe
male* resting on my arm, in the case alluded
to, although I insist upon the right te do so.
It is not true that the ladies in company
with me placed themselves under the care of
the gentleman (ruffian who assaulted me,
nor of any of the villanous party, nor of any
body else. It is not true that I sneared or
spoke to the loafing assailants. The facts briefly
are these. Myself and friends were going to
Philadelphia, and supposing that the “John
s Potter” departed from New York at twelve
o’clock,we rode down a quarter before twelve
1 but found on our arrival, that we had been
mistaken; the time of starting being half-past
one o’clock. The interval,therefore,we passed
in the Battery. When about to leave for the
Steamer, five or six men surrounded us, as
sailing us with all sorts of coarse and filthy
language, and two of them finally struck the
ladies on the head,while another attacked me.
I warded off the blows with my| umbrella,
and the cowardly creatures left without doing
any personal harm. Thinking that we should
not be disturbed by them again we walked
slowly toward the Steamer, one of the mob
observing that I was off my guaid, ran up
liehind me and before I could put myself in
a position to ward off the assassin’s blow, 1
was struck in the face.. These are the whole
facts in the case. 1 never was more calm or
self-possessed than when under his beastly
assault. I felt no indignation towards the
poor miserable wretches who committed the
outrage. They were but executing upon me
the behests of the proslavery church and
clergy of the land; doing the dirty work of
the men who despise them, and who have
no more respect for them in reality than
they bave for me. 1 shall have say
on my visit to New York and Philadel
phia next week.—f. d.
From the North Star Extra, published in
Philadelphia.
Shameful Abandonment of Principle;
INEQUALITY SANCTIONED. —COLORED MEN DE
GRADING THEMSELVES. —SELLING THE CAUSE
OF FREEDOM FOR POPULAR APPLAUSE, AND
PLAYINO INTO THE HANDS OF THEIR OP
PRESSORS.
It becomes my duty, as an humble advo
cate of equal rights—as a defender of the
principle of human freedom—to record my
earnest testimony at this crisis, against what
appears to me to be s most disgraceful con
cession to the venomous hatred so strongly
cherished in this city by the white against
th e colored people. When principle is sacri
ficed in high places—when high and import
ant trusts have been scandalously abused—
it becomes those who suffer from such epos
tacy to repudiate both the traitors and ih>
-treachery. This is their duty: to do boldly
and earnestly, and at whatever cost of popu
lar applause. To perform this duty I hav<
thus promptly'sent forth the North Stun
fjtira," hoping that it may be the means o
opening the eyes of many, who might els<
remain in darkness, and perhaps be allured
from the cause of our common liberties.
Should this good result be secured, it will lx
high compensation fur all the abuse and mis
representation to which I shall probably b
subjected. But, without further preface, I
lay before the reader a complete copy of s
handbill which has been widely circulated it
thig city, and under which a large meeting
has been held:
•‘THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION
versus v
NEGRO SLAVERY,
*f A Committee of White Cithteos bavin;
been appointed, at the meeting at FrtakLii
their Church forthal purpose. The Lower
requested to attend, sl* evening, May l»th,
st half-past (even ooMkk, and Itsten to one
of the moot eloquent powerful men in thtr
country, whether YFips or Black. Wo are
convinced that those hating a prejudice against
the race, after heariiif him, wilt snrrender
the same.”
You have read tlHMiiiidbiJl, and you ah
ready see in it that upon which 1 beg to
offer a few remarks, and against which I
would bear my humble, but not the lest
honest testimony. Ynthavt it here first
stated that a white committee wjs appointed
at Franklin Hall, to sedm a place of meet
ing for Mr. Ward. Ni|v, why was a white
committee selected fronts meeting composed
of both white and colored personal Was it
because a committee imposed in part of
colored persons, would Htvor .too much the
idea of social equality !—<*;»aa it merely an
act of courtesy towards the whites, and a
mark of humility on the pact of the colored
people there assembled I Ipr whatever fpa
son the measure was adoptM, 1 am opposed
to all such measures, and heartily
repudiate this. Away with SB compromises
to secure good-will, when condition
upon which it can be attained n a sacrifice of
self-respect and acknowledgment of our own
inferiority! In the very first announcement,
then, in this handbill, I find cause of com
'plaint; and although the basis of that com
plaint, standing alone, mighty pass without
animadversion, standing, as is does, in con
nection with other and more obnoxious fea
tuies, F hate felt in bestowing
upon it this word of ofl^pfent.
The reader is next informedby the authors
of this handbill, that they hare labored in
vain to secure a Halt in whph Mi. Ward
might hold a meeting; and |llege, as the
reason of their failure, the prejudice against
the negro race." This was undoubtedly the
true reason the prejudice! against the
negro race—aye, the This un
natural, unreasoning and raaligdffht prejudice
is the secret of most of our sifriai troubles
and misfortunes. By it we ati proscribed,
plundered and oppressed. This it is that has
shut us out not only froqj hallsl from hotels,
from steam-boat cabins, from the ballot-box,
from lyceums, from places of) amusement,
from churches, from almost eviy honorable
employment—but even from decent burial
grounds in this city. Yes, it is» this venom
ous prejudice that stands, as if armed with a
thunderbolt, to Btrike dead any black man
who dares to seek his own and the true ele
vation of his race. This prejudice it is
which we are to meet, encounter and subdue,
before any essential change for the better can
take place in our condition. This is the
Goliath which at present defies all the armies
of Israel. And, alas! at the very moment
when the colored people of this city had
reason to hope that an effective blow would
tie dealt upon the head of this arch enemy,
the very principle for which we are bound to
contend, has been most cowardly and shame
fully abandoned.
Here it is in these significant lines: read it
again. “The Lower Saloon w>*». he ai*-
PROPRIATED EXCLUSIVELY ThlMlU# WHITE
FELLOW CITIZENS WHO ARE RESPECT
FULLY REQUESTED TO ATTENJ).”
It is not easy to conceive of a more slame
ful concession to the spirit of slavery and pre
judice than this. It is colonization sanctioned
by the very men who profess to loathe and
detest it. Separated from the circumstances,
it is a violation of the very first principles of
hpman brotherhood—for which the friends of
freedom have contended for more tlian twenty
years—it is the wholesale adoption of the
mean and unchrielian “negro pew" system—
which has been everywhere regarded as the
strong bulwark of slavery and oppression.
But taken in connection with the declared ob
ject of the meeting, ihe well known character
of the gentlemau for whom tl.e meeting wa3
convened, and the complextion of the people
who own the Church in wnich the meeting
was held—it is the mos’tcowardly, contempti
ble and servile specimen of self-degradation
which has ever come under my notice. It
is literally admitting that all that has been said
by our enemies, of our unfitness for the pos
session of equal rights and privileges in the
relations of life, is true, and that it ought to
be reduced to practice. What use will the
revilers and slanderers of our people make of
this concession! Why this, and none else
than this: —that we are sensible of our
own inferiority; that we know our place
that we are conscious of our own unfitness
for the society of white people that it
is quite proper we should be separated
from them in the house of prayer; that the
two varieties of the same family ought not to be
allowed to occupy an equal footing; that the
lower and commodious part of the church—the
house ot worship should be reserved for white
people exclusively, and that colored people
should be separated and sent up stairs—col
onized. Such, then, are the inferences
which our oppressors may naturally draw
from this open and palpable abandonment of
the doctrine and practice of human equality,
imo which the colored people of this city
have boon wantonly and scandalously betray
ed. Let me ask those colored men whtf have
sanctioned this disgraceful transaction, to
show, if they can, wbat difference there is
in the principle of caste and exclusiveness in
volved in this case—and the principle upon
which Mr. Ward and colored men in gen
eral are excluded from the Chinese Mus
eum! Is there any! Are not the two things
founded on the same basis! Mr. Ward was
excluded from the Chinese Museum because
tie was a “colored man.’* Colored men, by
this notice were excluded fro* the lower pari
»f St. Mary's Street Church—because of
their color. The principle was that the same
in the one ease as is the other and it is
equally te be reprobated io both cases. He
who approves the one has no right to con
demn the other. 4 Out of thine own mouth
will I condemn thee. Thou that sayest a man
halt steal, dost thou steal?” Thou ths<
sayest that God is impartial, art thou par
tial? Will you condemn in others that which i
you justify in yourself! How long will ii t
take you to convince (ths||woild of human
equality and brotherhood by preaching, whik
you openly violate the piinciple in youi
practice* la precept stronger than exam
ple* Will men redace practice that
which the preaeher himself Tacitly admits to
be impracticable* Alas! for human weak
ness and the spirit of compromise, which is
here displayed!—purchasing the oppress or’i
fovor by selling our birthright to liberty.
This seeking our elevation in the ray path
way to self-degradation will end only in dis
appointment, shame and confusion.
The question will naturally arise, as to how
Mr. Ward and hi* friends will dispose of this
handbill, and justify his speaking, and their
assembling under its provisions, r Upon this
subject 1 cannot speak positively. 1 have
understood from respectable sources, that
Mr. Ward denies being tbe author of tbe
handbill. Thia is good—so far as it goes—
but to my apprehension it falls far short ol
exculpating him from just and severe censure,
lie does not, and cannot, deny that he was
apprized of the infamous arrangement before
the meeting took plaoe. He knew all about
the matter beforehand. Hit anawer to one
friend was, "that white men wrote the bill,
and if there wu anything wrong in it, white
men must make it right."
Now this answer is anything than credit
able to tbe honeaty, consistency and .good
sense, of him who made it. It is evasive
unsatisfactory, and a mere quibble, whict
will only sink its author deeper in disgrace,
than the act which he deaigned to shit-lc
from condemnation. In a matter of this sort
a man like Mt. Ward cannot be allowed
neutial ground. He is here as an apostle o
hbetty and equality. He is jealously it
watch over, and boldly to defend the cause o
human freedom. What if Mr. Ward shouk
throw off all responsibility in the matter 01
Slavery, and give up the contest, under the
ridiculous pretext "that if there he any
wrong in it, white men have committed the
wrong, and white men must mend it.’
Would any man regard him in any othei
1 light than as an apostate*
i The answer in question shows to what vile
and paltry shifts, a man in a false position
1 willTesort. He was rem inded of the nature
5 of this "bill,” by another friend who pointed
out.the objectionable feature which it con
tained, and made no answer at all. Now
why was this course pursued by the elo
quent Samuel R. Ward? Where was his
sense of justice! Where was his impartiali
-5 ty* Where was his manly indignation* Why
did he not denounce the whole transaction ai
once, and declare either that he would not
speak under such a call, oi that he would
take this handbill as the basis of his discourse,
and show the improprietyof sending forth such
a handbill* But he made no such declaration,
1 he manifested no sense of the insult offered
1 to colored citizens, and worse still, attended
the meeting, made an eloquent speech,
treated his hearers to any quantity of fun,
and never raised a whisper against the in
-1 famous handbill.
Now this leaves Mr. Ward without excuse.
1 His silence at such a time was a sanction of
1 the whole proceedings. He is responsible
for the insult and degradation, offered to the
colored citizens of Philadelphia. He mighi
have cleared himself of all blame in the mat
ter, by disclaiming the contents of that hand
bill, in the presence of the white committee,"
who are supposed to have framed it. This it
seems he lackeo the manliness to do. He
could not so far test thestnceiity of bis new
c converts, and risk their applause, as to tell
'rthem that they were yet in the darkness of
Slavery, and under the influence of prejudice;
but glazed the who e matter over in silence.
Now if this be fidelity, what is treachery*
I It is now no time to mince matters—no time
I to "ran with the hare, and hold with the
hound.” The colored people of this city and
I country, have had enough of this playing
f fast and loose, and the time has come, unless
i I mistake the signs of the limes, when they
i will demand of thotw who stand forth as their
advocates, an inflexible adhesion to the prin
ciple of equal and impartial freedom.—r. o.
Letter Crou Geo. W. Golaes.
Frederick Douglass, Sir: l attended a
i meeting on last Thursday evening, at tbe
Second Presbyterian Chuicb, St. Maty street,
under a call of a bill that was placarded about
the stieet9; which stated, "that the lower part
of the Church would be ixdutively appropria
ted fur the white citizens;" and to my entire
astonishment, I there saw a number of oui
oldest and most respectable inhabitants seated
in the gallqry. Whether all had been shown
up there by those in attendance, I am not
able to say,—but that some were, I am sure
is true.
I was astonished that Mr. Ward said noth
ing on that occasion against the proscription
proposed, and to some extent carried out.
protested against the bill making said distinc
tion, on first sight, and no argument that I
have heard as yet, has convinced me that it
was right.
Youts, for principle, not policy,
GEO. W. GOINES.
Philada. May 20, 1850.
Letter frem C, Lenox Remond.
"watchman, what of the night.”
Frederick Douglass My dear Friend,
—On my arrival in this city, this afternoon,
l have been both surprised and grieved to
find a printed handbili of a public meeting,
fur Mr. Samuel R. Ward, of Syracuse, in
the St. Mary street Chureb, on Thursday
evening last, introducing in the moat undis
guised manner, the spirit of oolonizuioa,
seif-degradation, and inferiority, to wit: the
pointing of such white persons who may con
descend to attend the mooting in this chureb
under the auspicer of colored people, to a
particular and superior part of the houae, and
colored persons tu specified inferior seats;
thereby, in my bumble judgment, sanctioning
in tbe most gratuitous, palpable and humilia
ting manner, the cruel and depressing customs
and laws under waich we have lived and suf
fered for a long aeries of yeara. And believ
ing it to be a violation of the praotioe always
obsetved in our churches and hallsj an unhap
py and alarming precedent, a flagrant. viola
tion of our pinciplea, contrary to the senti
ments entertained by a vast majority of the
colored population of thia city and the coun
try at large, in opposition to tbe doctrines of
the colored gentleman advertised to speak on
the occasion, and at this important and trying
crisis in mu cause, demanding the special
fWTtW «i Ip
tad universal consideration o! oat people, —i
unhesitatingly embrace this early moment,
and the medium of your watch ful a«d valua
ble journal, to record my unqualified and
solemn protest against the principle, practice
and precedent, which have been inttodoeed in
the instance referred to, aa repieheoaibly in
jurious, treasonable to our interest#, ami de
grading to our people.
With deep solicitude for the welfare of our
cause. I lemsin, truly yours,
C. LENOX REMOND.
Philada., May 19, 1860.
At a Merging of the Executive Com
mittee of the Western New York Anti-Sla
very Society, the following resolutions were
unanimously adopted
Resolved, That we deeply sympathise with
our Ami-Slavery friends who assembled si
the Anniversary Meeting in New Yoik,
in th »ir exposure to the threats, insolence
and violence of a lawless mob and hereby
express our beany approval and admiration
of the calm and pacific manner in which
those threats were met; and further express
our confidence that this outburst of mobo
cratic feeling w.’H also work lor the further
ance of our good cause, in accordance with
the designs of the Great Ruler, who makes
even the wtath of man to praise Him.”
Resolved, That we hereby express our
heartfelt sympathy and cordial fellow-feeling
with our peisecuted brother, Freda kick
Douglass, in the brutal treatment indicted
upon tun* by some misled and ignorant ruf
fian* in New York City, for his devotion to
the cause of the enslaved; and denounce, aa
disgraceful and dishonoring to our land, all
such violent interference with the peaceable
rights of our leilow-cmzens.
Resolved, That the recent manifestations
of pro-slavery sentiment, unexpected as they
were brutal, serve to show that our labor is
not yet completed—that the demon-power ol
Slavery is still rampant in the land, and sum
mon ua and all friends of Freedom, to renew
ed exertions and unflinching fidelity in our
good cause.
Resolved, That the above Resolutions be
piesented to the North Star, for publication.
HULDA ANTHONY, Pres, pro tem.
John Dick, Stc'y.
Extract
From th* reply of Mr. Oaßßlsos to an anonymous
wnttr in ths Boston Trans nipt who accused Mm
of blasphemy.
(From[tbeJLiberator.)
•Sigma’ refers to my ‘late blasphemy a
New York, but makes no quotation. Aly
speech moves his choler, and stirs within
him a holy rage surpassed only by that which
was expressed by that notorious profligate
and rioter, ‘Capt. Isaiah Rvnders,’ who with
Ins nefarious confederates, day after day in
vaded the anti-slavery meetings in New York,
uttering imprecations and threats against the
non-resisting friends of the slave, and beha
ving in the most beastly manner.
‘Rynders,’ says the New York Courier
and Enquirer, ‘seemed to be in a violent
passion; probably bis feelings were much
wounded at hearing Daniel Webster and the
Christian religion treated with evident dis
respect’ the pan on and representative
of ihe brothels, rum holes and gambling hells
of the ‘Five Points,’ side by side with” Sig
ma,’ rushing in furious haste to the rescue ol
the Christian religion and ‘our glorious
Uiiion’ 1 Par nobile fratum!
What shall be said of the fairness or hon
or of the man, who takes, a garbled report ol
a speech from a paper intensely hostile to the
speaker, and, assuming it to be authentic,
makes it the occasion of scattering in this
community the most unjust and inflammatory
comments upon ill Is this doing as he would
be done by? Can anything be more despica
ble? What I said at New York was com
prehensively this—that the popular tests ol
piety, in this nation, were of no- significance
and proved nothing of love to God or man,
because ‘the offence of the cross’ has ceased,
aad it is everywhere safe and reputable to em
brace them. Is this ‘blasphemy,’ or the ut
terance of an undeniable fact? I said that a
profession of faith in Jesus now costs noth
ing; for his praises are everywhere sung and
his deeds are everywhere lauded, —by none
more loudly than by those who enslave and
imbrute their fellow-men; and, therefore, this
is no longer a true test of piety. Can this be
truthfully denied? Finally, I declared mv
belief in a Jesus w ho redeems, not enslaves;
who binds the broken-hearted, not crushes
the weak; who goes fer proclaiming libeity
throughout the land, nut lor perpetuating hu
man thraldom— h i Jesus who lived and sut
lered eighteen hundred years ago. Was
that an impious sentiment? Had I not beet,
riotously interrupted, my design was to have
shown hot*' striking has been the analogy
between the Anti-Slavery movement in the
United States, and the promulgation of primi
tive Christianity in Judea—both experien
cing essentially the same treatment, despised
and rejected of men, hooted by the rabble, de
nounced by the Scribes and Pharisees, perse
cuted by the rulers; their advocates accused
of being'pestilent and seditious fellows, seek
ing to turn the world upside down,’ ‘the filth
of the earth and the uffscouring of all things,'
scourged, imprisoned, and in some instances
put to an ignominious death, —accused ol
blasphemy,—‘in penis of robbers, m penlc
of their own countrymen, in penis in the city
m peril among false brethren, —approving
themselves ‘as ministers ol God, in much pa
tience, in affl.ctiom, in necessities, m dis
tresses, in stripes, m imprisonments, in tu
muli#,’ ‘by evil and good report, as decei
ves, and yet uue, as unknown and yet well
known, as sorrowful yet always rejoicing,
as chastened and not killed, as always de.iv
ered unto death for Jehus’ sake, that the lile
of Jesus might be made manifest in their
mortal flesh.’
From time to lime, old things pass awav
—all things become newr. While, in this
age and country, the recognition of Jesus,
as the Mesiah, subjects no one to shame, re
proach of peril, eighteen centuries ago, in
Judea, it cost everything; and Jesus himaelt
was crucified aa An imposter and blasphemer.
And still, in the person of the slave, he is
despised, rejected.
Methodist Protestants oa Slavery.
The Protestant Methodist body, which is
a secession from the Methodist Episcopal
Church, and extends over North and* South,
have had. at their late sessions, in quadren
nial conference at Baltimore, a contest on the
subject of slavery, which bids fair to effect a
breach similar to that which sundered the
body few years since. The members ot
the cburch residing at the North are very
generally anti-slavery; and Rev. J. J. Smith
of the New York conference, submitted the
following resolutions:
Resolved, That the woid '‘white” in the
13th article of the Constitution, is both inju
rious to our cause and subversive of our prin
ciples a* a church; and, therefore, ought th be j
reu oved.
Resolved That its removal would be no
injury to the Southern section of our church;
i hat having full power guarantied to them by
the Constitution to make their own teguia
lions on all subjects, providing they confine
themselves to the restrictions of that docu
ment and the Holy Scripture*.
Resolved, That this Conference instruct
their delegates to vote for the expunging ol
the word "white” from the article aiore-
The object of these resolutions is to ex
tend the right of suffrage to the colored mem
bers of the church, and to make them eligible
fo office. A motion to la, the resolurion.
apon the table, was the signal for an exciting
debate. The motion was finally lost, and the
resolutions were referred to the Executive
i-'iwiSra v-y, j jrftib A.-dt ifr jMeift
oommmee. iitiii committee reported that
Ibey had no jurisdiction over the subject of
Hereupon another fierce debate en
sued. which resulted in sending the subject
back again to the Committee, we bare rot
heard that any disposition has been made of
the matter. But it strikes us that the South
ern delicacy which revolts at so mild sn as
pect of justice towards the race as these re*-
olulions propose must be of a strong type.
N. Y. Evangelist.
E a rope an Attain-,
The Europe, which arrived at New York
on Friday last, after a passage of less than
twelve days from Liverpool, brings tba latest
intelligence.
England. Parliament ie still in session.
In the House of Commons, the subject of la
bor Id factories has again been attracting at
tention. In reply to a question by Lord Asb
ley, whether Government intended to pro
pose a plan for the settlement of that question,
Sir. G! Gray said that he should propose a
plan, the effect oi which would be to reduce
the hours of labor in factories to ten and a
half hours for five days in the week; and
from 6 in the morning to two in the afternoon
on Saturdays. Mr. Hums icgreited that tb*
government were so weak as to countenance
the vicious principle of interference between
masters and men. The discussion ended
without resuh; no definite plan being formally
before the House. We cannot see the validity
ot Mr. Hume’s objection. To rob a man of
his time and of liU labor, is not less an in
justice than to rob him of his purse. Demand
and-supply politicians say that wages cannot
be regulated i:i this way. If so, then govern
ment utteily fails in effecting its object, which
professes to be to protect men against injustice
and all oppression. But where has the ex
periment of government interference between
rapacious employers and ill-paid work;nen,
been honestlyand fairly tried? Certainly u-l j n
England, nor in any countryof theOtd World.
Neither has it been tried in this country. We
ahouid like to see a trial made with the honest
purpose of allowing to the workman the fair
proceeds of Ins labor, before it is definitely
and authoritatively decided, that it can’t be
done. One fact is worth a thousand theotiee.
On rhe 7th inst., Mr. Ewart moved the
peal of the Advertisement Duty, which he'
justly descnbed.as a tax on commerce, 00
literature, and on religion. Noihing was
•aid, nor could be said in f avo r of the tax
(Fot the information of readers to ibis country
we may say that in England, Advertisement
in Newspapers are taxed—we believe Is. 6d
Eog-Jon a] lad vet t iseraen i sof whatever length
The Chancellor of the Exchequer replied
that his surplus was already disposed of, ai d
the revenue would not bear further losses
A vote was:taken,and resulted, for the repeal
37; against a 209.
The searching expedition to the Article
regions, sailed from Greenhithe on Saturday
4th inst. The officers and crews of all the
vessels were in the highest spirits. Excellent
arrangements have been made, which inspire
hope that the expedition will be successful.
In Ireland the chief subject of interest
seems to be the sailing of the steamer Viceroy
direct from Dublin to Halifax. An impres
sion prevails among all classes, in Ireland,
that the potato disease has disappeared!
VV hether there is sufficient ground for that
impression, remains yet lo be seen.
I rance. On- the Bih of may, M. Eugene
tiue made his appearance in the Assembly,
m the character of a representative. He, it
is said, seemed much amused at the attention
his appearance excited. On the same day,
M. Baroche, Minister of the Interior, intro-*
duced his Electoral Bill, which is causmg
much dissatisfaction, Oneofihe provisions
of this Bill requires a three veai’a residence
to qualify for the Sufiiage. An initiatory
vote on the subject demanding the previou*
question, resulted Ayes 197; Noes 45 3; ao
there can be little doubt, bat the Bill will ere
long become law. M. Michel, an opponent
of the measure, said, in the course of a dis
cussion following the reading of the Bill, that
its effect would be to strike off five or six
millions from the electoral list. It is, in fact,
a covert attack upon the principle of univar
sal suffrage. The liberal papers warmly op
pose this measure. The Voix du People looks
to forcible resistance. The Democratic Pact
fique recommends that petitions be covered
with millions of signatures against it; and if
they are without effect, an organized refusal
of taxes. The Pressc admits that the nuem
ber of voters will be diminished; but thinks
that the relative numbet of opposition voters
will be increased.
Italy. The pope is in difficulties about
his funds—a million of dollars, the first in
stalmentof Rothschild’s loans,having mysteri
ously disappeared. Letters from Rome, of
the 30th ult,, state that tranquility prevailed
in the city and throughout the Roman Slates,
but that arrests continued to be made, and the
public mind was rather agitated.
In Denmark, serious disturbances are ex
pected soon. The army is being rapidly aug
mented.
The Greek difficulty has been settled.
The demands of England having been ac
ceded to. J. D.
Imprisoning British Colored Seamen,
The reply of Lord Palmerston, in regard
to the seizure of a colored British sailor,
strange ss that reply was, has brought out
two letters to the London Times.
Sir—l am “surprised” at the “surprise”
of Mr. Ysrdley on hearing that the black
steward of a trading vessel had been irapr.aoo
ed at Charleston. It is quite regular and ac
cording to white law there.' I was in Am
erica Ml 1839 and 1840, and remember very
dually that the enlite black crew of a ship
from St. Domingo, captain, able hands, and
alt, were packed inm prison during the whole
time the vessel remainedjn the same port of
Charleston, South Carolina, and only allowed
to rejoin her whilst she was being worked
out of the haibor by hired “riggera.” It
struck me at the time that had the and vessel
hailed from one of the British West India
Islands the circumstances would have been
embarrassing.
BLANCO.
RO»G* ET NOta. f
Sir—l learn from your recent article upon
he sohject that it is the custom in Chartee
on, U. S., to setae upon the person of every
Jritish negro who may chance to arrive these
n a British vessel, and remove him from
«a ship to jail, where he ie kept so Jong aa
t remains in the harbor. Thushis employer
nses his services, and the man himself
uses hie wages, beside* being made (win- ot
vaving committed any offence) to lie in a i
ail, and to pray for his maintenance whilst
here.
All the Americans condescend to sey sheet
he mattes is, “If you don’t like the custom,
don't bring your nasty stinking niggers ti
Charleston.
know that it is useless to argue witfc
them on black subjects, and I would, there
fore, suggest that we should, in retaliation,
commit to Bridewell, every red haired Am
erican, the moment he enters the Mersey
Mr. Lawrence remonstrates, as he proba
bly will do, all we have to answer is, “if ynr
don’t like the custom, don't bring your car
roty countrymen to Liverpool.”
XXXlst Congress.—in Senate.
Washington, May 21 1850
After the ptesenmion of petitions, Mr
Yuee moved to take up his resolution sub
mined yesterday in relation to the invasioi
of Cuba;
Mr. Hale hoped it would not be taken up,
asit must lead to debate, and the time had
no* arrived for taking up. a special order.
Mr. Webster hoped it would be taken up.
it was an important subject, and ought to le
disposed of.
The question being taken, it was agreed to
consider the resolution. Mt. Walker moved
to amend by adding a proposition, n questing
of the President by what authority he lisi
despatched vessels of the United States to
inieicepl or suppress the supposed resolu
tion.
Mr. Yuloe accepted the amendment, and
addressed the Senate in support of his reso
lution.— Fiom information which he had |re
ceived, be was inclined to believe that the
expedition referred to was not a military ex
pedition such as contemplated by our neu
trality ob i-’ations. He recognized in the
highest r* ffT* the importance of preserving
our neu ality obligations, and designed to
make no to all proper constitutional
measures to that end. What he desired to
call the attention of the Senate to, waa whai
seemed to him to be a gruss usurpation ol
powei by the President —an attempt to cover
up a delinquency at home, by the commission
of a great wrong abroad. An expedition
had left our shores, not for the commission ol
any act upon our own possessions, or upon
the high seas, and when beyond our jurisdic
tion altogether, the Executive had taken
measures to attest and defeat their move
ments. If the rumors upon which the Exe
cutive action was founded, were true, the ex
pedition was designed tor the coast ot Cuba,
a foreign jurisdiction, and the duty assigned
to our national vessels was tr prevent its
landing upon that foreign coast, and to pre
vent the landing of stores and supplies. This
act was grossly in violation and denial ot the
tights of emigration, and expatriation. I
w as an outrage also upon the freedom ol
commerce. National law provided a that
whenever a civil w ar breaks out, or the flag
of revolution is unfurled, there being two
belligerent parties in the field, it is a neutral
commercial right of any citizen of the United
States to hire or sell vessels for the purpose
of furnishing either of the belligerent panies
with supplies of arms or anything else. Tins
right the executive was charged with having
violated, in a manner in his opinion, most un
justifiable and inexcusable. In conclusion
Mr. Yulee declared, that while he had no
previous information with reietence to this
eipednion, h a sympathies were w.th the Re
publicans who were endeavoring to release j
themselves trom tyranny and oppression.
Mr. Webster regretted that Mr.‘Walker
bad thought necessaiy to move the amend
ment he had offered, because it was rather
offensive in its terms, and was not exactly re
gular, as il enquired under w hat authority a
certain alleged act had been done befo.e any
evidence of the execution ot that act had
been furnished. He Imped the amendment
would be withrawn, but if it was not, he
would vote lor the Resolution, even as
amended. He had beene xceedingly surpiised
at some of the propositions asserted by the
Senat- who had said among other things,
that ihis s ipposed act of the President looked
like ftn act of war,—war against whom?
Whi.l country? What colony 7 What pro
vince? It was important that we should gov-;
ern ourselves by some distinct undeislandmg
of the neutral duties of the government, ano
of all her citizens as defined by the law ot
1818. If we mean to be neutral we were to
consider oui treaty stipulations. Everybody
knew that out stipulations with iSpain, ihe
executive jiower ol ihe United Slates has,
over and over again, assured Spain—as far
as the Executive could give such assurance—
that it ahe would not voluntary give up Iter
possession of Cuba to a European power, the
United Slates would do all in their power tu
aas st Spain in maintaining her possession.
He did not intend to say how tar these stipu
lations were binding on Congress, bui simply
to remind the 8 n te that such stij ul .ti ms had
been given, as tar back as Jackson's adminis
tration and made for the purpose, and with
the view, of inducing Bpain not to part with
Cuba to the advantage of an European pow er,
and the consequent detriment ot our imer
asts. And these views and acts of the Exe
utive had been published again and again,
and no objection to idem had ever been
beard.
But what was it that had been complained
about? It was said that the President had
directed a portion of the naval armament ol
the United States to go to Cuba, fi r certain
specific purpose*, and if the facts were as
Stated, and supposed to be, those purposes
were not only legal, right, and constitutional,
but the course ascribed lo the was
made hit duty by positive statute. This
was a military expedition fitted out in the U.
S. to act against Cuba —il that was ihe fact,
as the law forbade, and, was designed to pre
vent the fitting out of such expeditions in the
U. S„ whatever the President had done was
eoriect; whatever had been done had l»een
placed upon the giound that the expedition
wav a military one, and that it had been pro
jected and coinmeneedjin the United Slates
If so, the Executive w:»s by law directed,
wherever he could within*and under the juris
diction of the United Siates, to exert both
the military and naval power, to supprtss the
expedition. —If an Ameiican vessel was found
on tire coast of Cuba in me execution of the
purpose of the expedition, it was as much
under our jurisdiction as if laying at one ot
our harbors, for it was a generally admitted
fact that the jurisdiction of the U. T. on
board of American vessels extended wherever
our flag floats. The Senator had also said
that tf a landing was made upon the Island ol
Cuba under a revolutionary flag, that was a
breaking out of a civil war in which wc must
remain neutral between the parties engaged
in it. That he admitted to be true, but when
autfh civil commotion was aided on the one
side cr the other by tire fitting out in tins
country l>f an armament, that was against ihr
law of 1818, rind what that law was express
ly designed to prevent. The Senator had
also thrown out a general remark, that he
w as afraid this act of the President was ano
ther of acveral acts calculated to lead to the
suspicion, that the policy ol the administra
tion is anti-republican. Mr. Webster thought
the remark gratuitous and unfounded; —ht
believed the President designed to execult
ike law honestly, fairly and firmly.—He knew
of nothing in ins hie or acts to lead to the
supposition that the President was not a*
good a Republican as the rest of them.
Mr. Clay looked upon »he movement «i
altogether premature, and did not design u
enter into its discussion. He httped that thi
Senate would not have their attention turner
from the admission of Califoroa by any exp
dit;on fitted out in the South against Cuba
He moved that the resolution be laid on thi
table, fvt the puipose of taken up tbs specia
order, which was agreed to.
1 be Senate then resumed the consideration
oflne (‘nimbus bill, and Mr. Soule addresser
the Senate in support of the amendment sub
milted by Jefferson Davis against the pro
posed compromise scheme. After a genera
reference jo the former questions pending be
tween the north and Suuth, be wbraiue
seme remarks on the Texts boundary ques
tiou. and objected to the provision of the til
which cut off two and a hair degrees, which
by the compact with Texas, tell to tbs slave'
holding territory. The fugitive slave bi
had come back hardened with lestnenom
the question referring to the District of C<
lurobia waa embarrassed with provision
which gave up all the.rights which 'he aout
had claimed, and freed all slaves Who wer
brought into the District, and prevented
citizen from getting a slave. The next pos
lion was the admission of California, includin
in her boundaries all the territory acquire
fiom Mexico adapted to slaver cultivation
before committing himself on this vote h
desired to consider the nature and extent i
ihe compensation given to the south in lh
establishment of territorial government!
Reading the tenth section of the bill whici
prohibits the tetritorisl legislatures from pas
sing any law hi relation to slavery, he asked
what was this compensation? Nothing mor
than the statu quo of Mexican law—the stat\
quo of Mexican law with a vengeance.—
First, the report declared that slavery doe
not exist by Mexican law, and next the bil
prevented the Legislature lrom even recog
mzing slavery .—-Mr. Davis’ amendment dii
nut surrendei the doctTine of non-interference
it merely protected rights which belong H
citizens of the territory under the Consiiiu
lion. The tenth section was a oounterpaito
ihc second resolution submitted by Mr. Clay
which was met with such a burst of indigna
tion and alarm. The bill, Instead of leaving
the question of the existence of slavery ji
Mexico to be deiermined, prohibited the
territutial Legislature from passing any law
on the subject, and gave to Congress the pow
er ot voting any territorial law. He also
considered the question of the existence ul
slavery in New Mexico.—He admitted that a
Constitutional Congress in Mexico in 18*24
abolished the slave-trade. The measure was
considered by Mexicans, as belonging to I hat
class of legislation which is cal ed organic.
It was consdered by the Mexican authorities
that the Mexican law was superseded by
American law; thus a law prohibiting burial
rights to protestams, w as abolished and su
persfded by Ametican law. But there was
another kind uf slavery in Mexico Peonage
—and, if the Mexican law prohibiting Alri
can slavery prevailed, then the law establish
ing Peon slavery also prevailed. It would
iollow that an American citizen might be
come a slave to Mexicans. ermont estab
lished the same kind of slavery, by the firsi
section of her Constiiution. It existed as an
institution in Mexico, but he maintained that
be did not himsell approve it. Mr. Soule
closed his remarks with an eloquent ana im
passioned appeal against the compromise
measure.
Mr. Clay said the debate had been conduc
ted thus far with great irregularity. The
question before the Senate was upon an
amendment involving a single point, in the
discussion of which Senators have launched
out upon every branch of the whole snbjcct.
In vindication of the action of- the Committee,
he felt bound to answer some of the objec
tions, which had been urged by the Senator
lrom Louisiana. The Senator objects to this
scheme of compromise. Would the Senator
bring forward his scheme of compromise,—
his proposition, which should give peace to
the distracted country? It was his duty to
s.ry what he wanted. The Senator* had ob
jected that the compromise Committee had
brought back the fugitive slave bill, burdened
with restrictions, instead of improvements. It
was a little remarkable, that the objections
to the fugitive slave bill came from those
Stales who suffered little or none from the
escape ol slaves, while it was entirely satis
tactory to those States which suffered most
lrom that cause.
Mi. Clay proceeded to defend the bill from
the objections which Mr. Soule had urged,
lu the course ot his remarks,
Mr. Soule interposing, admitted that
slavery was abolished by the Mexican law,
hut contended that the Constitution of the
United States set aside the law of Abolition
E. O. instanti.
Mr. Clay resumed—lf the Senalor so be
lieved, what more did he want?—What did
he ask*—What would he have? would the
Senator say?
Mr. Soule expressed his readiness to an
swer. He was willing to abide ny the tenth
section, it amended os proposed by his friend
from Mississippi, (Mr. Davis.) and had no
objection 10, but would go for the bill, with
important but reasonable amendments.
Mr. Clay w as glad to hear the Senatoi so
express himself,—there was some hope of
him afier all. He had supposed, from nis
speech, that he was committed irrecoverably
against anv measure of Compromise. Would
Mr. Soule be satisfied with the section if the
clause objected to was stricken out alio
gethet?
Mr. Soule would be satisfied with the
amendment of Mr. Davis.
M. Clay—But the Senator knew that they
could not agree to that, because it assumed
a tact, winch he denied, that slavery already
exists in Mexico, and a so, that the Constitu
tion ol the United Stales carried slavery
there. If, however, he would he satisfied
w ith a provision, that the Legislature shall
neither establish not exclude slavery, he (Mr.
Clay) wuuld.ftssent to it. li| was time that
the troubles in the country should be com
posed. He had not been among those who
believed the immediate danger to the Union,
existed; but he w as one of those w ho believed
that if this agnation was continued a year or
two longer, there was no telling w hat danger
might ensue: if the dissolution of the Union,
in terms, did not ensue, that w hich was next
to it to be dreaded would—the dicsolution ol
the ties ofCbmtian brotherhood, which bind
us together as a nation. lie also expressed
the belief, that if this Compromise Bill, or
some measure of the same character, did not
pass, nothing would be done for California—
the territories, and a fugitive slave act; noth- j
I mg to soothe the agitated feelings of the
country, and to save the effusion of blood.
And even if Congress should pass any one er
I more of these measures, it w ould have no
beneficial effect upon ihe country, because
one section would continue biiterly to re
proach the other, for having secured its own
ends without making provision fur the others.
He also again contrasted the President’s plan
of settlement with that which the committee
had presented, and called upon the friends of
i the former in preference to the latter, to
stand up face to face in its defence. He
challenged the contrast. All agreed that it
was necessary to restore peace and harmony
to the country by some means; what then
were the measures proposed fur that purpose?
There were five gaping wounds, all and each
bleeding, and threatening destruction. What
was the plan of the President?—lo heal all
the«e wounds? No, but to close up one ol
them only, and leave all the rest to produce
certain death, instead of proposing a plan
comprehending the whole subject. He had
pioposed one which was at most a feeble
palliative.
He (Mr. C'ay) had seen with surprise and
regret the rebalance made by the Chief Mag
istrate to the scheme of the Committee. The
President had come here with his plan re
commending the admission of California.
The Senate agreed to that aa far aa it went,
but thought it necessary to go further, and so
proposed. The President ought then, in ihe
spirit*bl Compromise which should prevail in
both ends of the avenge w hen the Com
mittee proposed additional enactments, to heal
np these wounds, he should have hailed the
measure with joy, and given it his sanction
and support, instead of opposing it it in any
mauner whatever. Mr. Clay also again
commented upon the evils of a military gov
ernment in a time of profound peace, as ap
plied to the Teriitories, and ridiculed the idea
of any action by which the South should
maintain the equilibrium of power in the
Union. Slavery was nut the only interest
in the minority in this country; the mauulac
luring, fishing, commercial and other interests
1 were alt in the minority, and y«t the majority
had not destroyed them. In conclusion, be
referied to the settlement of the Miaaoen
question, and predicted that the jov, triumph
sad exultation which filled the country upon
II it* adoption, would be again witnessed upon
the consummation of the pending measure,
while the agitators who rode this slaver?
b j hobby lor personal and party purposes, woo'd
j I be hushed into silence by the acclamations ol
e] joy.
i Mr. Upham took the floor, and the Senate
adjourned.
r HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
J Mr. Harris, of Illinois, introduced an
i amendment to the Canadian reciprocity bill.
e Mr. Fuller reported a bill for reimbursing
I Maine for the expenses she incurred respec
s Ung the Northeastern Boundary.
The House then wentinlo Committee ol
1 ihe Whole on the State of the Union, on the
California Message.
Mr. Haymund, (Whig) of Va.. had taken
his position before the assembling of Con
-1 gress, in favor ol the admission of California,
and had seen nothing to change his views,
i He defended the President from the charge
1 of usurping legislative power, and invoked lu
North and South to stand on the platform ol
1 non-intervention, He said that he and Mr.
Beale (dem.) represented one filth of the
white (Kipulation of Virginia, and there was
not a sane man in favor of a Southern con
federacy. The people in the north-eastern
section believe that the Nashville Convention
was conceived in sin, and that ihe object ol
ihe getters up is disunion. There need be
no fears for the Old Dominion's pairiotbm.
The disunionists in that commonwealth could
be put to rout by her sxity clerks in office
here.
Mr. Gerry, (dem.) of Maine, said that the
people of the North, in common with the
civilized world, have no sympathy with slave
ry, and with a few inlamous exceptions, will
sacredly and religiously discharge the duties
they owe to the Uuion and slave holding
States. They don’t believe slavery will be
abolished except by the action of the States
where U exists. He was in favor of the ad
missiun of California, and governments lor
the territories, inhibiting slavery. If he
could not do that, he was for oiganizatiou,
proviso or no proviso.
Mr. King, (Whig) of Massachusetts, ad
vocated the admission of California, and
wanted Congiess io adopt the pioviso. This
done, we should hear no mure about ih9 an
nexation ol Cuba, and the insatiable thiut
lor extension would be quenched forever.
The Committee rose, and the House
adjourned.
What I saw at noon«dayin the streets
of Cincinnati.
Friday, May 10 was a delightful day,—
the sun seemed to shine with more than
usual splendor; and as the several proceeding
days had been characterized by cold raint
and muddy streets, the inhabitants were in
great numbers, to enjoy the balmy air ot the
cheering spring. The hole city appeared to
wear an aspect of peace and mildness that 1
had not 1 e nre ol my short so
journ within its busy limits. It Mas on this
day, while sitting at my window studying the
phases of human, nature that passed with
the lively throng that crowded one of the most
public and fashionable of her streets, that my
ear was startled wi h the cry of‘‘murder!” 1
looked out and beheld multitudes rushing to
ward the market equate. But to dense be
came the crowd, that nothing could be seen
save the cloud of dust that arose from their
centre, giving unerring indications that a
struggle for life was there going on. Yet
above the din and confused attendant upon
such a scene, was heard the cry of an unfor
tunate victim for “help.” Suddenly theciy
ceases, and the gathering crowd way
in all directions. One blow from a weapon
neld in the hand of the Kentuckian had pros
'rated the struggling victim, and silenced his
cries. The captors, Jour in number, then
drew iheir huge bowie knives, and cocked
their loaded pistols, and one exclaimed with
stentorian voice, "Stand back, you cowardly
ruffians! ihe nigger is mine, and I’ll have
him.” They then seized the negro, who
had sufficiently recovered to stand upon his
feet, and, with the blood streaming down his
sable cheeks, they began to push him toward
the river. The captive was a mulatto, much
belter dressed than his raptors, and “looked
much more the man;” he was slim and tall,
and straight as an arrow, lie had diank at
the fountain of fteedom, and appreciated its
worth. He had resided for years in ihe city,
nor dreamed of mules'ation; and the though)
of being again returned to the lash ol hu
master, caused him to renew his leeble ex
ertions to escape the grasp of his inhumai
pursuers. “Help, friends, help!” he cried
as they hunied him or.; “for the love of God
help, or I am lost forevei!” Then, by i
superhuman endeavor he h»d nearly clearer
uieir grasp, when a heavy blow from a cud
gel felled him again to the earth. No help
ing hand was raised in his behalf
The savage Kentuckians then seized him by
the collar of Ins coat and raised him to hu
feet—then placing themselves, one on titliei
side, one beiore and one behind, they burn
ed him down the street at a rapid run, with
pistols in hand, and their "shining blades”
glittering in a noonday sun, shaking them at
the ciowd and ihieatening death to all who
should interfere.
The negrb, fipm his exertions to escape,
and from his bruises, had become so feeble ai
to be unable to keep his feet at all times, and
was, therefore dragged a portion of the dis
tance. On they rushed amid the thousand
gazers, taking the centre of the street, and
teems, and carriages, and vehicles of every
description turning aside at their approach
until they had gained the hill that overlooks
(he banka oftlie river, when they discovered
ihat the ferry-boat had just left her mooiiiigs;
but, upon being hailed by “the Kentuckians,
the captain immediately backed his boat, and
ihe captive was tumbled upon her stern, fol
lowed by Ins captors, who scarcely had time
to clear her raile before she was off again.
When the boat had gained the centre of the
liver, and was beyond the reach ol the mis
siles that were hurled after her by the crowd,
the gallant Kentuckians made the welkin
ring with cheer after cheer, in triumph ovei
their achievement in seizing at mid-day in s
land of liberty, and in a crowded city, a ha
man being, and bearing him back to the lasl
to chains, and pirpetual slavery. The boai
reached the opposite shore, and the negri
landed in Kentucky.
The above is a hasty sketch of a scene pre
sented at one o’clock P. M in Wainu
street, Cincinnati, the greatest thoroughlan
in the city, I wish it were all fiction, a men
dieam— but it is true, every word. 1 havi
heard, but I do not yet know how true tin
rumor, thst this same man has been kidnap
Ed oncu before, and proved his freedum
is name is George Jackson, and has beer
residing in the city for several years carrying
on the business of a barber. It has been de
cided in the courts of Ohio, that the negro u
a free man the mon ent he steps foot upon he:
soil; and yet her citizens have stood calmly
by and permitted one of their fellow being!
to be carried into slavery without ever hav
ing asked the question whether he was oi
not, a slave, or asking even that the forms ol
law should be observed. They have per
mitted theit laws to be trampled upon and
set at defiance by an armed band from a
neighboring Stale, who have flourished theii
bowie knivea and pistols in her public streets,
and shook them in the faces of tier citizens,
without their ever having asked, "why dc
ye so!” and all this after having pretended te
take the lead as a friend of the slave. 1 have
not time, sir, to comment upon such cow
ardly conduct, such utter disiegard for the
dignity of the laws of their State or theii
country. I blush while I say it, the atari
and snipes—-the flag ol our common country,
emblem of' liberty, justice, and union—wa:
majestically waving almost over the very
heads of the crowd who were gathering
around the prostrate-man, until it tutted tin
pleasure of four Kentuckians to carry hitr
into captivity. (Mi! that it had turned into a
whip to aeourge the backs of those who per
aimed n.
Yet, Mr, it is just su<4 scenes as this that
Mr. Webster and his lugg ailing of worship
per* and admirers woo have occur in ev
ery city and in every State in our Union.
Mr. Webster ’a speech as done more to em
bolden men to such dev Is of daring than art
the slavery speeches i rade in Congress. It
has thrown a mantle of indifference over the
masa of the inhabitant of the States, and
they will tolerate note rhat was intolerable br»
Jure cause Mr. Webetersays it is constitutional
They are sacrificing life dictates of humani
ty and the of their own judge
merit, to the superior wisdom of the great
expounder and sage fren the altti slavery and
puritan State of Msssrtfcuaetts. Mr. W eb
ster says, “there exist the greatest prejudi
ces, the greatest misapprehensions,” in re
gard to Mason’s bill, it is so. It is mis
apprehended, because he suppotta it. The
moral and anti-slavery garb of Webster is
thrown over it, and us real hideousnesa is
not seen. The boyish and silly attempt to
escape 4hif responsibility of hia declaration,
that he would support the bill, only makes
his position the nrmie contemptible. His
friends, state that he was made to say whai
he did not mean by ike transposition of the
word “which.” He mid he would support
Mr. Mason’s bill to its “fullest extent
this is not denied; but bow was he to do this
of a bill which he was to load with amend•
mentsf It will require the remainder of Mr.
Webster’s life to wipe out the evila v. hich
that speech has brought to the slave and the
opponents ol slavery in this country.
J. S. P.
From Correnpomlence of tlie Boston Trans
cript.
Interesting from Cuba.
LaNdivq OF GcM. b* l *»»n T*«m* oi
Cardenas.
Gcp. Lopez landed at' Cardenas, aboui
ninety miles from Havanna, on the I7h insi
with about 500 men, and took possession ol
the town. The garrison consisted of one
company of about sixiy men, who made but
a slight resistance. They were driven into
a church, and after losing three men, killed,
surrendered.
Gen. Lopez landed from the steamer Cre
ole, which left New Orleans on the 13th in&t.
Several other vessels, containing in all about
1500 men, left New Orleans before the Cre
ole, but have not arrived.
The greatest excitement exists at Havana.
The city is under martial law, and several
thousand militia had been enrolled, and arms
were distributed among them. The resident
foreigners were all called upon to enroll.
There were 1500 troops at Matanzas, and
800 were despatched from Havana on the
lOih inst., to re-inforce them and March
against Lopez.
it was rumored that the force under Lo
pez had increased, and lhat he had advanced
half way io Matanzas. On the 16ih, news
was received that a large force was collected
on Woman’s Island, near Catoshe, Yuca
tan.
A general of marines, with several’vessels,
and three thousand uen, started immediately
lor that point.
Just before the Ohio left, the Spanish
steamer Pizarro came in with 105 passengers,
mostly Get mans and Irish.
The report was that they' were to be shot
at 12 o'cluck that day, or at least every tenth
man, the halai ce to be confined in the dun
geons of Moro Castle.
It is known that some 10 or 12 vessels
have left New Orleans, and differe.it parts of
tl e| Gulf, probably to land instantaneously
at Different points.
It was reported that Gen. Lopez had bro
ken up the railroad to Cardenas at several
I laces.—The merchants at Havana were re
moving their money to the fort lor safety.
The Ohio, Georgia and Falcon were com
pelled to anchor at the entrance of the har
bor.
Capt. Schenck protested thro’ the Amer.
Con’l to the I 'aptain General, and demanded
a safe anchorage, hut was refused, and told
that he might go to sea as soon as he pleas
ed. None of the passengers, except those
who had passports, weie allowed to go
ashore. No communication was allowed be
tween ihe passengers, not even between the
oTi<<r until a permit was obtained from the
Captain General.
The Ohio was oblged to wait more than
15 hours for a permit to transfer her passen
gers, after Bhe was ready for aea.
The Cuba Expedition.
A correspondent of the Courier and Enquirer
writing from Washington May 16, says:
The Spanish Minister presented the case
to the President last night, and despatches
were immediately forwarded to the Gulf
Sqadron to arrest the movement, if praciic
able. I doubt very much whether these or
ders will reach their destination in season to
operate advantageously, and I look to the
otxt intelligence from Havana with the most
fearful anticipations. An event like this,
sanctioned, as it has been, hy distinguished
Southern gentlemen, may give a dangerous
complexion to pending question*. We can
only wail ard watch. The future is shrouded
in gloom and in terror.
A correspondent of the Express has the
following:
Washingtnn, Friday, May 17—Night.
1 have seen a letter to-day from Bridge
port, (Barbadoen.) from an official source,
which throws a Hood of light upon the mys
terious manoeuvres of the so called Cuban Ex
pedition.
If the statements in this letter be true,
this affair is far more extensive and com
prehensive than you are aware of, and so I
think yuu Will be ready to acknowledge, ere
long.
The writer says: “Cuba, Barbadoes,
Jamaica and Hayti, are beyond all manner of
doubt destined to change their rulers, and
ere another let'er from me may reach you,
the terrible work (fur terrible it will be) wiii
have commenced.”
The World’s Industry.—Sir Henry
Bulwer has addressed a letter to the Secre
tary of State under instructions from his
Guvernment in which he says “that her Maj
esty’s Commissioners have settled the am
ount of space which may be assigned to the
productions of each country in the building
which is to be erected for the exhibition in
Hyde park, and that they have allotted to the
productions of the United States eighty thou
sand square feet. He adds.—■
“I am also instructed to request that the
United States Central Commission may be in
formed that about one-half ol the gross apace
so allotted to the United Slates will be re
quired to be given up to passages and other
purposes; and I am to snoe that, as it will
be necessary that her Mt esty’s Commias
lO.iers should receive timely notice aa to the
vxient to whh h each country will tako ad
vantage of the offer thus made, her Majesty’s
Government are anxious to be enabled to
communicate lhat information to her Maj
esty’s Commissioners ou oi before the Ist of
September next.
1 also enclose, for the information of the
Central Commission in the United States,
the accompanying memorandum which has
been prepared by the direction of the British
Commissioners, containing a classification,
under four section, of the articles whi*b are
to be admitted to the exhibition of 1851; and
I am instructed to request lhat the United
States Central Committee will have the good
ness to state fiow they purpose to apportion,
with reference to that classification, the
space to be occupied by the articles which
they intend to send for exhibition.
H. L. BULWER.
The Secretary of State says that these
documents*will be speedily laid before the
pubftc for the information of all who are in
terested.
Great Exhibition or 1851.— At a meet
ing held in London on this subject, Mr.
Cobden stated in reply io an objection agsinsi
“putting the market 1 in England by Ute ia-
trodociion of so many manufactured eommw
ities, that he would disclose a secret which hr
(bought would dissipate any alarm that migh
be entertained about a glut of the market
There was a project aft on foot in the Unite*
States for purchasing the exhibition booth,
when it was finished in this country, an
carrying it over to America —[loud lauglnet
and cheers If Such a project had original, t
elsewhere, he should hare laughed at it a
chimerical; bnt knowing that the parti,
were men of high respectiahlity and large
capital, one of them being the owner of Uit
iine of packet ships between Ltveipool am
New York, he had no doubt that it would h
carried into effect, and that it would al».
prove a right good speculation. Now, wl.si
became of the opinions of those on his ex
.rente left, who he feared were rather Den
•crstically inclined! But the fact was, the
lid hot like to have the exhibition connecie
with royalty; hut what would they say to th.
tact that their republican friends across th
Atlantic—the wide-awake Jonathans—wer
coming over to buy the exhibition, and carr*
t back to their own country! Aa he hn
teen all the correspondence on the subject
ie con Id state that they proposed this pla.
»n percisely the same ptinciples on which i
was advocated here, namely, in the nope th#
ihe manufactures of their own country woul
be likely to derive improvement frum a friend
ly rivalry and comparison with thuse of othe.
countries.
From Hath. The brig Enoch Benner,
arrived at this port on Monday morning, Iron
Port au Prince 2d inst. A letter received by
her contains the following:—
Port au Prince, May 1. I arrived her*
on Saturday last from the Cape, and fount
'the United Slates aieamer Vixen and sloop?
•t»»r Albany and Germantown, with M.
Duff Green, S(«ctal Agcn* «f «t»« Umu
States, on board the former. Mr. Green ha
been some time at St Domingo City, on
mission from the United Sutes government
On Saturday he had an official interview
with the Empeior and hia Ministers, and do
mantled that a person should be appointed i
meet and confer with him on certain claim
he had to present. This has been accorded
and Gen. Ddvar, the late minister, had bee>
named, and 1 suppose to-morrow they wit
hold their meetmg. Delvar is perhaps th.
beat man tha* could be chosen, as he has bee.
some time in France, from whence lie ha:
just returned. He is a black, and quite in
telligent. Mr. Green tells me one of th.
principal questions he will bring forward wnl
be the recognition of our consuls as com
mercial agents, and that they shall enjoy th.
same rights and privileges aa others.
As lor the pecuniary claims, 1 douh
whether he will get much, aa the slate o
the finances is such, that the government
cannot pay, if they would. A thousand and
one rumors are afloat as to the intentions o.
our government in coming forward with aucl
claims at th.s lime. Some of them dal.
back to the time of the Emperor Ciiristopiie.
A MODERN ROBINSON CRUSOE.
That pious feeling among sailors
which is so frequently awakened by
the vicissitudes of their lives, has called
the name of "Providence” to be given
to more than one coral reef and deso
late Island in the Indian Seas. Rare
ly perhaps, has it been more appropri
ately bestowed than if was on a small
rocky islet which lies to the northward
of the Mozambique channel a few days
sail from the Isle of Bourbon. This
story is scarcely known even to Mari
ners of the nation to which the hero of
it belonged; and therefore to make it
familiar to our readers may not be
thought undesirable:—
In the year of 1820, M. Cremacy,
the Captain of a Bourbon trading ves
sel, resolved to visit the little Island of
Providence, in order to obtain a cargo
of cocoa-nut germs for planting in the
colony to which he belonged. The ap
pliances for navigating the eastern
coast of Africa were at that time very
rude. Chain cables were not known
but were made from the fibres of the
plain, simitar to teose which are called
goumonton in the Belebeo, coir on the
Spanish main. These cables are very
liable to be cut by the sharp reefs and
coral bottom which abound so plenti
fully in the Indian Ocean; and in or
der to spare the anchors, a wooden
frame filled with stones, called a pe
gase was the frequent substitute.
Immediately on his anchoring in this
manner at Providence, M. Cremasy
went on shore, and sent back his boat
with her crew to the ship, while he ex
plored the island. He had thus been
occupied for sometime, when the ca
ble of the pegase broke, and the ves
sel was carried out to sea by one of
the violent currents which set off these
shores. The mate made sail as spee
dily as he could to regain the anchor
age; but he was unable to head the
current, and the night fell while he
was endeavoring to do so. The cap
tain left on shore by this accident, had
on at the time nothing but a jacket
and a pair of white trousers, and for
his sole weapon a manchette, a kind of
short sabre used in boarding.
When he found himself condemned to
pass the night in _this desert island, his
first care was to construct a place ol
shelter; and with the broad leaves ol
the cocoa tree he built up an ajoup,
or hut, and made his supper of cocoa
nuts, eating the fruit and drinking the
milk. He did not sleep over soundly,
for he was tormented by ajvague appre
hension concerning his vessel; the sense
of loneliness oppressed him, and he
was somewhat in fear of rats and other
noxious animals. At day-break he
was on shore anxiously looking out to
discover a sail on the horison; bul
nothing was visible through the misty
morning air. The sun rose and dis
pelled the mist, but his rays fell upon
a wide expanse of azure sea, unbroken
by any vessel.
He sat down on a reck, and began
to meditate upon his future destiny.
There was but one course open to him
—to bestir himself for the supply ol
his daily wants. With his manchette
in his hand, he set out once more to
explore the territory of which he was
the unwilling sovereign. He got noth
ing but cocoanut for his breakfast, and
dined also upon the same fruit—a lux
ury to a school-boy, but held not in
equal estimation by a hungry sailor,
though he thought himself lucky that
the island produced anything eatable.
By dint of prosecuting his researches,
M. Cremasy succeeded in making an
addition to his vegetable diet in the
shape of some wild cucumbers; but he
was unwilling to eat them raw, and
had no means of cooking them by fire.
A native, if the island had been peo
pled, would have lit one for him by the
friction of two pieces of wood. He re
membered the method of the savages;
and procuring a sort of light wood,
made a hole in it with another piece of
a harder kind, and by twirling it rap
idly endeavored to kindle a flame; but
whether from accident or want of skill,
he wasnot successful in his attempt;
and when the sun went down he was
once more left in darkness.
On the following day he again look
ed out for the ship but again without
success. He therefore redoubled his
efforts to procure fire, and by dint of
perseverance at length produced a
light smoke upon the wood. He then
hastily collected some fibres-bres of the
cocoa nut, and placed themin contact
with the ignitied substance, and at
last was rewarded by a brillianj spark,
which presently broke into ablaze.
He now got together a sufficient
quantity to keep the fire all night,
heaped it with branches and dried leaves
and watched it with interest until the
third moruing broke. Tired out with
his exertions, he at length fell asleep,
but he had not been asleep long, be
fore he was awakened by a singular
noise, as if some one was slowly creep
ing towards him.- He opened his eyes
and looked wishfully into the obscurity
of the dawn, and presently saw a large
object stealing across the sand.
He grasped his manchette and wait
ed nervously for its nearer approach.
At length he discovered an enormous
turtle, come according to the habits of
that animal to lay its eggs above high
water mark. The turtle always selects
a situation that catches all the rays of
the sun; they make a hole in the sand,
cover up the eggs, and fifty days af
terwards, without fail, their instinct
brings them back to disinter them.
At the moment when the layer of sand
which covers them is removed, the
young turtles break their shells and
follow their dam to the water’s edge;
and when they reach the waves, they
make themselves fast to her belly, and
are towed out to sea, to qualify them
jn time for the feasts of the aldermen.
As soon as M. Cremasy ascertained
who his early visitor really was, he
walked stealthily towards her, and turn
ing her over, kept guard over her till
daylight came, and dispatched her.
It was a task of some difficulty to cut
her up; but when he had succeeded,
he found himself repaid for his trouble.
The turtle was capital. He boiled the
meat which he thought excellent, and
preserved the fat which he disposed of
in the shells of the small turtle on the
shore} and oat of the fibres of the co
coa nut be made wicks, in this manner
constructing a very notable sort of
lamp, antique in fashion, and moreo
ver, highly useful. To season bis
turtle, be then procured salt from the
evaporation of sea water, and convert
ed the shell of his visitor into a cald
ron. With these civilized means of
cooking, he ceased to enjoy his cocoa
nut milk, and laid in a stock of fresh
water, obtaining it by sinking a well
into the sand.
It soon became necessary to wash
his linen, but he could not bring him
self to the resolution of remaining a
siogle instant entirely naked; he there
fore would wash one garment at a time
wearing his shirt until his trowsers
were dried, and vice versa. He next
burnt a clear space round his hut to
keep off the rats, and fortified himself
within a ditch, well fenced against in
trusion by sharp palmetto branches and
the stiff leaves of prickly pears.
In the course of his walks he had
seen a number of pigeons, who allow
ed him to get tolerably close to them;
he therefore set to work to hunt them
down on foot with a long pole, and
thus added a very agreeable dish to
his repast, for when roasted, they pro
ved extremely tender and succulent.
With flesh and fowl to supply his
table, it was not long before he got a
third requisite of 1 good dinner. On
the south side of the island was a coral
reef, upwards often leagues in length,
which the tide, when it went out, left
high and dry. At low water the fish
hid themselves in the hollows where
the water remained, and our solitary
islander discovered in this fact a new
source for employment. Every day at
low water he went out to the reef,
sought for the reservoirs, which con
tained the greatest number of fish, and
then harpooned them with his boarding
sabre; some of these he salted and
the rest were immediately cook
ed.
But however earnestly M. Cremasy
labored to improve his position, on* 2
thought dominated over all others—the
hope of finding the means of escaping
from his solitude. When not employ
ed in procuring and preparing food, he
passed his whole time on the lookout
for any vessel that might shape her
course within sight of Providence
His eyes were ever turned towadrs
that point of the compass where his
own ship had disappeared, and.a thou
sand painful apprehensions disquieted
him—the dread of its having been
wrecked on some of the sunken rocks
of that dangerous archipelago being
the most paramount. But he was not
one to give himself up for any time to
inactivity. He knew the value of the
proverb which tells men to assist them
selves if they look for aid of others,
and accordingly resolved upon con
structing a beacon which should be
visible at the distance of several leagues
It was without difficulty that he suc
ceeded in collecting a sufficient quan
tity of heavy wood to make a pile; he
heaped it a mass of dry leaves, and
placed dry branches in alternate lay
ers with the trunks of the cocoa and
the palmetto. This accomplished, his
eyes wandered toward the ocean to
seize the favorite moment for lighting
up his beacon; but da/ followed day
and his solitude grew more and more
dreary. His only pleasure consisted
in watching the frigate birds as they
chased the gulls, and robbed them of
the prey they brought home from the
great waters. It was, after all a mel
oncholy sort of pleasure, for the
screams of the tarnished sea birds did
not tend much to enliven the solitari
ness of the shore.
M. Cremasy at length began to get
uneasy about the condition ofhis ward
robe. How could he manage to cov
er himself, he asked, when his shirt
and trousers were torn to tatters.
The necessity of the case suggested
an expedient. He manufactured a
kind of cloth out of the thread-like
substance of the interior ol the palm,
wheth he wove together as well as he
was able. It was not a firstrate pro
duction, but it served at all events to
prevent the sun from scorching, and
the night air from chilling him, and
then he had the ineffable satisfaction of
admiring his own handiwork. He
managed also to fabricate a pair of
sandals out of the ropy bark of the co
coa-nut tree
In this primitive costume he deter
mined upon examining the island thor
oughly. The task was not difficult,
for Providence is little more than two
leagues in circumference, and the sur
face is nearly level. About one-third
of it, the part which lies to windward,
is covered with a forest of cocoa-nut.
The currents and the prevailing'winds
have cast innumerable seeds on the
eastern shore, where they have ger
minated, taken root, and in the lapse
of ages created the forest we spoke of.
The remainder of the island is merely
a sandy plain with stunted shrubs scat
tered here and there; but little grass,
and what there is, course in touch and
salt to the taste. A more desolate spot
altogether can hardly be imagined;
and here it seemed probable that Mr.
Cremacy was destined to end hia days.
Deliverance came, however, when he
least expected it.
He was one evening returning to
his ajoupa in a very pensive mood,
absorbed in thoughts of the home he
feared he should never revisit, when,
as he stooped to gather some shell-fish
for his supper, be fancied that some
thing like the sails of a ship glittered
on the horizon in the rays of the set
ting sun. He had been so often de
ceived by the clouds which assumed
the same form, that he was afraid to
trust to his first impression. He
watched the object steadily and noted
that, while the aspect of everything
else changed, this alone preserved its
first appearance, and, moreover that
it was nearing the island. He could
no longer doub: that it was a ship.
His heart beat high between fear and
hope. Was if his own vessel or a
stranger?—Should he at once light the
beacon, at the risk of.rapidly, and per
haps uselessly, consuming what it trad
given so much trouble to collect?
But the sail gMw closer. He re
solved to take his chance, ind the mo
ment it became dark enough for his
purpose, he set fire to tie pile. A
pyramid of flame shot up in :o the sky,
tod a minute afterward* the report of
a gun assured hi* that the signal had
been seen. He |ow listened intently
and the next sosnd that reached his
ears was the noiii of the oars in the
row-Jodks, as with measured beat thej
urged the boat as| ore. The keel gra
ted on the rocky bottom, but he bad
already hailed the crew, and in the
joyous answer ttyri floated over the
breeze he heard jhis own language,
and recognized the voices of his ship
mates. The vessel in the ofling was
his owu, and the mate had come back
to look for him. Carried away by the
violent currents, and water and pro
visions failing, the former had been
obliged to make for Anjouan, near Ma
gotte, to vitual the ship; he then re
turned in search of his captain.
The exile wrote the history, of his
thirty-two days’ imprisonment, and pla
ced it in a bottle, which he hung upon
one of the most prominent treeß on the
coast. An English vessel passing by
a few months since happened to send a
boat on shore for a supply of cocoa
nuts, and thus discovered the narra
tive. The sailors also tound that the
island was overrun with wild poultry;
for when M. Cremasy took leave of
Providence he left'hehind him a small
stock, which multiplied as he desired.
It was an offering of grateful remem
brance for the mercy which had spar
red him.
Pork Eating. —The Jews, Turks,
Arabians, and all they who observe the
precept of avoiding blood and swine’s
flesh, are infinitely more free from
disease than the Christians; more es
pecially do they escape those oppro
bria of the medical art, scorfula, gout,
consumption and madness. The Turks
eat great quantities of honey and pas
try, and much [sugar; they also eat
largely and are indolent, yet do not
suffer from dyspepsia, as the Chris
tians do. The swine-fed natives of
Christendom suffer great devastations
from a painful tubercular disease of
the bowels (dysentery) than from any
other cause. Under my own observa
tion, and in my own experience those
persons who abstain from swine’s
flesh and blood, are infinitely more
healthy and free from humors, glanu
lar diseases, dyspepsia and consump
tion; while in those districts, and
among those classes of men where the
pig makes the chief article of diet, tu
bercle in all its forms of eruptions,
sore legs, bad eyes, and abscesses
most prevail. It is a remarkable coin
cidence, that Prince Edward’s Island
has a climate exactly similar to Great
Britain, yet the inhabitants are not con
sumptive, neither is the pig here culti
vated.—Parry on diet.
A Pleasant Occupation.— A cor
respondent of the Albany Express has
furnished the annexed, account of an
individual residing at Lake George,
whose employment is thst of catching
and taming rattleshakes, the “staple
commodity” of the principal mountains
in the vicinity of the Lake:
During my rambles, I fell in with
a queer old covey, apparently about
sixty years of age, who profers the
sport of catching rattlesnakes to the
more pleasant and less dangerous one
of shooting deer and other wild game,
or catching trout. I was shown six or
eight ofthese amiable creatures, which
were safely secured in a strong cage
made expressly for their accommoda
tion. I his man sells large quantities
to itinerant show-men—others he kills
for the purpose of obtaining their oil,
which is said to be very valuable, be
ing an excellent remedy for rheumatic
and other complaints. The modus
operandi of catching them is as fol
lows: A strong leather loop or noose
is attached to the end of a pole eight
or ten feet in length—with this pole
he cautiously approaches the den, in
front of which the snakes bask in the
sun, placing the noose over the head
and neck—the noose being so construc
ted that when the snake struggles the
tighter he is held, rendering escape
impossible. When the old fellow wish
es to tame them and render them harm
less, he extracts their fangs in the
following manner: He lays the. head
across a log of wood, then places his
foot on the neck, pressing it until his
snakeship throws back his upper jaw—
the mode in which they bite—he then
applies a pair of pincers, and, with the
coolness of an experienced dentist,
pulls out the fangs one by one! He
has been twice bitten by these reptiles,
and at one time came near losing his
life, his body being swollen in a horri
ble manner—but he fortunately discov
ered a w'eed of spontaneous growth on
the mountains, which has proved to be
an infallible remedy for the bite of the
rattlesnake. It is said “there is no
accounting for tastes" —this man’s em
ployment is a pretty fair illustration of
this saying.
English Law. —Lord Brougham,
n a speech on May 12, 1838, drew the
allowing picture on English Law.
A mass has been engendered, in
rhich the obscurity of darkness alter
ates with the glow of cross light;
leagre explanation with inexcusable
rolixity; repitition with omissions; re
ugnancy with truism; amass of which,
it be not termed nonsense and con
radiction, only escapes those epithets
rom the respect due the venerable
ame of a statutary record.
The reports of esses in the Courts
11 five hundred volumes, the statutes
ear forty, or between 30,000 and 40,-
00 quarto pages; while Napoleon’s
'hole Codes, five in number, crept in
750 duodecimo pages. Well might
e boast that he would descend to
iture times with his Code in his hand.
-Ohio Standard
Dress and Merit. —Guard, the famous
rench painter, when very young, was the
sorer of a letter of introduction to Laniu
has, then the counsel of Napoleon. The
)ung painter waashabbily attired, and his
•cepiion was extremely cold; but Lanjunaias
scoveied in him such striking proofs of tal
)t, good sense, and amiability, that, on Gi
ird> rising to take leave, be rose too, and
Mompanied his visitor to the ante-chamber?
he change was so striking, that Girurd could
at avoid an expression of surprise. "My
bung friend,” said Lanjunaiaa, anticipating
te inquiry, we receive an unknown person
wording to his dress; we take leaie of him
joording to his merit.”