From the True Wesleyan.
CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
Most of the Presidents of the United
States who have held this office since
the adoption of the Constitution, have
been slaveholders. Can lie be a ‘‘just
man,” who deliberately puts his hand
into his neighbor’s pocket and takes
from him the avails ot his labor, and
thrusts his hand through the pocket to
the man, and makes the body goods and
chattels; and still like the horse-leech
crying “give, give, lie forces his gree
dy hand through the body to the soul,
and claims its original powers, and like
wise the work of the spirit ot God upon
that soul, as wrought especially for his
benefit in the market where he sells
him. Is such a man just'
If found on the coast of Africa doing
such things, he would be regarded as a
pirate and dealt with accordingly. Tut
let him ohange his location a few de
grees of latitude and longitude, and he
is nominated for the office ot President,
(if popular) and the Church v, ;!l auc
tioneer and vote tor such a man, and
endorse his injustice, and trample on
the authority of the word ot Cod it
ia as much the duty ot ihe hrislian to
vote right as it is to pray right' far “lie
that turneth away Ins ear turn, healing
the law, even his prayer shall he an
abomination.” Now, every professor
of religion who votes, well undersfands
this; that the law by which a ruler is
secured in this country is by the suffra
ges of the people; and hence when he
does not vote for what he prays in rela
tion to the administration of the govern
ment, he turneth away lii» ear from
heating the law, and his prayer is an
abomination before God. It is not an
uncommon thing to hear professors oi
religion of a certain character pray,
'‘that we may be favored with just ru
lers—men w ho shall fear God and work
righteousness; men, who shall exert
their influence to break the yoke of the
oppressed and let them go free; and
who will also oppose war, and cultivate
h spirit of peace with ali nations —who
will carry out also the great design of
government, in securing to all classes
of men their inalienable lights, &.C.,
and then go directly to the ballot box,
and vote himself a very inconsistent
member of the Church of Christ. It
this is not an abominable prayer, what
ia? No man who robs his feilow-uuio
of his earnings cun be a iu-t man;
slaveholders do this very tiling, and
therefore are unjust men. The time
serving (not Christ-servingj member ot
the Church exalts the unjust man to
office, and therefore shows Ins want ol
faith in the word of God, and perhaps
in the next Conference meeting com
plains of the alarming increase of infi
delity! It js a fact so well established
that the American Church as a whole,
does not require as a condition on which
her voles shall be given, that the can
didate should be a “just man,” that, to
deny it, would be to deny tlie fact that
we have now a slaveholding President,
made so by the votes of the professing
Christians, in common with ihe votes ol
slaveholders.
“Jusi <jj«! arid Holy
J* um Church which lend*. ai l to tl»o spoiler,
Thine 1
Every ruler who takes the oath of
office under the General Government
of the United States, appeals to God
for help to carry mlo effect tho Consti
tution and laws of the United States.
“Ho that ruleth over men must be
just, ruling in the fear of (iod.”
The Constitution of the United States
doe*, or docs not sustain this God-dis
honoring, woman-whipping, heatlien
niaking system of Slavery. if it does,
then the luler swears to defeud this vile
hoanuation, and asks God to help him!
hat an insult to Hun who i» opposed
all wrong,—who is pledged to do
r *l|kt, and does .right continually! If
Constitution does not aim at the
protection tf Uiia ungodly system, hut
THE NORTH STAR.
aims at the protection of the rights of
man; and if (hose rulers know that the
rights of any man are unjustly, uncon
stitutionally wrested from him, and do
not exert themselves to remove such
wrong, and defend the Constitution,
they are guilty of perjury! That man,
who does not regard his oath, is not the
man who 'fears God,' and is not the
man He will approve of. The govern
ment is not administered agreeably with
the letter, or the spirit of the Constitu
tion on the question of Slavery, and
hence it is clear that the rulers do not
rule in the fear of God. Both the let
ter and spirit of it is against oppression,
and yet there are millions of degraded
down-trodden slaves in the land! Why
is tins? Does the Church consider it
the design of Government to take aw ay
liberty from every sixth person in the
land? If not, why does she not demand
the overthrow of this system of oppres
sion? The people who adopted the
Constitution,say in the preamble, “We,
the people of the United States, in or
der to form a more perfect union, es
tablish justice, insure domestic tranquil
ity, provide for the common defence,
promote the general welfare, and secure
the blessings of liberty to ourselves and
our posterity, do ordain and establish
this Constitution for the United States
of America.’ There is not even a hint,
that Slavery is an object to be defended;
but it is emphatically asserted that lib
erty is to be secured “to us, and our
posterity.” But leaving the Slave
States out of the question, why does
slavery exist in the District of Colum
bia? I answer, because the Presidents
have not defended the Constitution as
they have sworn to do in their solemn
appeal to the God of nations, who says,
“thou shalt not take the name of the
Lord thy God in vain.” In Art. sth ol
the amendments it reads, “No person
shall be deprived of life, liberty or prop
erty, without due process of law.”—
The President of the United States
knows that the only ground on w hich he
claims the right to property in man, and
ground on which liberty is wrested from
hundreds in the District of Columbia is
this: their mothers were slaves! And
they are deprived ol liberty without due
process of law, which is defined in arti
cle 7th of Amendments, which says
“In suits at common law, where the
value in controversy shall exceed twen
ty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall
be preserved, and no fact, tried by a
jury;, shall be otherwise re-examined in
any Court of the United States, than
according to the rules of common Jaw.”
What does a slaveholding President
care about common law for the slave—
or what does he care for his oath on
these articles? He is in office, and the
Church has helped him in, and now says
by its silence as the high priests did to
Judas, “see thou to that.”
J ins is her present position m rela
tion to the existing, slavery-defending
administration.
It is easily understood from the word
oi God w hat position she should occupy
as the representative of Jesus Christ,
1. Repent of infidelity, and treachery
to His cause, and to his sufi'eting poor,
who are crying for liberty. She should
be penitent.
2. She should rebuke that spirit
which divorces morality from politics,
and help to elect such men only as will
rule in the leur of God. This she has
not done, and consequently is guilty of
corrupting government by her influ
ence. She should rebuke ali iniquity.
3. She should unite her influence
with the faithful in Christ Jesus who
contend for the rights of man univer
sally, and demund a just administration
of government, by voting right, and
pray to the Great Head of the Church
to assist the few who are establishing
the law of God, and not making it void,
and thus make the Church what she
should be, “the light of the world,” as
Christ requires.
J. M. H. DOW.
,1 SLAVEHOLDING HUMANITY—
“TUitMNG LOOSE.”
An instance of slaveholding humanity
and honor has recently came to our
knowledge, winch is so characteristic
of the slave system and the slaveholding
spirit that we will narrate it:
A colored woman named Sarah
Cromwell, nearly ninety years old, ar
rived in this city a few weeks since, in
the Baltimore cars, under the following
circumstances. She was raised and
had always lived as a slave in Balti
more, and for many years had been
owned by a master, whom she had nurs
ed in infancy, and tended through sick
ness and health, until driven by his own
{hand from his home. A few' months
since she met with an accident which;
disabled her somewhat for active labor, i
and depreciated her value as a piece
property. Finding she was likely to
become an expense to him, her master!
sent her to Wilson's slave prison for
sale, ordering the trader to get rid of
her to any body, and at any juice; Out
110 purchaser could he found to take
her.
While she was there, two intelligent
gentlemen from Chester county visited'
1 the prison.
“Gentlemen,” said the slave
after a few moment upon
his business, “here's a chance for your
l philanthropy.” Then stating the fact-*
in the case, and adding that the old wo
man w as unsaleable and worthleaa, andi
1 a disgrace to establishment, be pro
posed that if the/ would take her to
Pciuisylvajii*, they might, and he would
pay her fare.
“Old wom«J*l” ,n lh lrU€
slave driver’* tone, ‘come out here?
Sho out, withered and tottering
with age, an object to move the rt-vtur
cntiul pity of every feeling heart. He
rc pealed I Mb proposal to her, and asked
her if she would go to Founsylvama.
■i
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD IS THE FATHER ALU AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
“No!” was hernndignant reply, and
ker eves flashed fire as she spoke, “I
told Master that lie had worn all the
flesh off my bones, and he should not
throw the worthless bones upon any
other hands. I was worn out ia taking
care of him, and he shall not turn me
off to die with strangers.”
But, poor woman, she was a slave,
and her will was powerless. A few
days later the heartless soul-trader, by
order of the more inhuman master, took
Sarah Cruinwell to the cars, paid her
faro to Philadelphia, gave bonds to the
railroad company to save them from li
ability, put two dollars and fifty cents
into her hand, and sent her to Philadel
phia; threatening vengeance on her if
ever returne«bind telling her that
the “damned. Quakers would take care
of her." p.« mfln and drcre|»d.
she was turned omnoWtless, friendless,
and almost pennyless into a strange
city Here she fortunately found that
the world was not all peopled by demons
or monsters. Generous hearts and
kind hands, rich in benevolence, though
poor in the world’s wealth, gave her a
home w'bere she now is. These facts
are fully confirmed by other testimony
than her own, from most reliable wit
nesses. We have no words to speak
the loathing and shame which such a
deed, perpetrated by a human being,
excites within us. Such is American
slavery! Such is the spirit and feeling
which it breeds!— Pa. Freeman.
A SLAVE’S ARGUMENT.
We copy from the August number o
Sartain’s Magazine a passage from r
tale of the Revolution by a Mr. VVilej
of North Carolina, which has been de
nounced from Mason and Dixon’s lint
to the Gulf of Mexico as an ‘Abolitiot
Document’ of the worst sort. Oui
readers will remember some allusion:
made trom Southern papers in relatiot
to it. Wild Bill’ is a fugitive slave
meets n young couple in the woods
when the Tale proceeds thus. It i:
well worth reading to learn how palpa
hie a pumpkin lantern will pass
those fire-eaters, for the foul fiend him
self breathing forth smoke and flames
The wild man was, at first sight, ar
ordinary looking negro, whose face
though not entirely black, denoted un
mixed blood, and whose features hac
on expression more intellectual thar
ferocious. An old hunter, however
would instantly have known him to be c
man of the woods, tor his skin had thai
reddish-brown rusty hue, which con
stant exposure to the weather produces,
and there was about his look and gait
an undt finable air that showed an un
tamed and untameable nature. He was
rather low in stature, but stoutly for
med, with greath depth and breadth ol
chest, an'd a naked arm ofimmense size
and almost ns hard as ivory.
iou gaze hard at me,” continued
he, addressing himself to Walter, “but
it’s natural, for I’ve no doubt you’ve
heard a great deal about me. What’s
the last news?”
“News about what?” asked Walter,
“About me—Wild Bill 1 have I done
anything lately?”
“You ought to know better than I,”
answered Walter. “You know when
and how \ou committed a most brutal
and barbarous murder lately.”
“I don’t know to which one you al
lude,” said the negro. “I’ve done so
much of that lately,that I hardly know
the names of all the cases.”
“You seem to make yourself merry
at the recollection of it,” replied Wal
ter, setpping back and slightly raising
his gun.
“Come young man, don’t disturb
yourself’,” remarked Wild Bill: “I un
derstand you, and you may as well put
dow n your gun. Would you shoot me;
kill me in cold blood?”
“I will not kill you if you’ll surren
der,” said Walter, “and let me deliver
you up to justice.”
“To justice!” exclaimed the negro,
his wild laugh startling his listeners.
“You deliver me up to justice! Do
you know what justice is? Don’t you
know it is the will of the strong? the
instrument by which the great folks op
press, and rob, and break down the
poor and weak? bah justice,” cried he
with a scornful look and tone, “how I
hate to hear a canting hypocrite use
that word.”
“I know it is often misapplied,” said
Walter, “but that is no reason why a
murderer and a robber should not be
banged.’
“And who will hang him?” asked
the negro; “the liars, thieves, and
murderers, who rob mankind of their
rights, and make laws to sanctify their
crimes? Young man, my hands are
rough aq*i hard, but there is no smell
of innocent blood upon them; my skin
is dark and ugly, but rny soul is whi
ter than that of the whitest judge who
sits upon the bench. What have I
done* what is my crime that I must be
an outcast and an outlaw, hunted from
swamp to swamp, with a whole nation
for my enemies, and not a human soul
to speak to- me in the language of
friendship?”
“What have you done?” exclaimed
Walter, “why robbed and murdered
peaceful and unoffending people, turn
oing your hand against every man, and
making for yourself enemies o! all man
kind.”
U-ttu f*J*>u* **oi uaiike the Wild
Fill ol i.«. t Jtf. from <W r.L-U.t uthere h**e
in Ki«tfrn CsroKfW, reaawmy
*hoh*c4i..<W ctoe mmd,
a-*1 ihe triido.u, co«**. «ra«f«u* of«W
tern, and at* will. »ptc* of **d
*ouw«mi, ul
**The Vwamp* e*f*ri*Ur. »re fait of «m± dmwe-
U-r.; a* I mrnm ymr* P** “D*—»l
ure.Md Unwed fm setersi
tte-« «iMIWSM** the *‘ldereew, were
drive* Urm their P****- 1* **»d cm*
voting .*B4B eho ted n* *ff »aee 4 «.»ejo«*,
erturwd u >*l waster, »*oi a UB1 v chll
dnrn*
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1849.
S.
“Let the great God of heaven am
earth crush we tin-, instant, it' the guii
of a single murder or robbery lie*
heavy on my soull’cried Bill.
“Then you are greatly belied,” sak
Walter.
“And so is he they call the devil, r
replied Wild Bill, “mankind are fond
of laying ail their sins on some hated
scapegoat. Young man, you know lit
tle of this world, and wfien you come
to know it, your honest heart will sick
en. Here am I, an unoffending, lone
ly creature, Jiving on wild fruits, sad
the beasts of the forest, molesting no
one, taking no part in the affairs ol
men; and desiring to live only in the
wild-woods, a free inan; and yet, for
that very reason, my uame has become
a bugbear to frighteu children and old
£ujyues, and a thousand weapons aim-
Erafrny heart. And who are my"en
emies? who are my judges? where are
the red men who once roamed these
woods in freedom? Swept away, root
and branch, by those who are after me
with the vengeance of the law. These
woods and rivers, and towns, and
swamps, and fields belonged to another
race; a race that never visited foreign
lands, and never carried civilization
and death to foreign nations. But the
pale faces and their red laws came here
and where now are the poor savages,
whom the Christians came to bless?
Their bones are strewn with the dead
logs of the forest, and the swamp, and
their souls are all gone to the Indian’s
Heaven! And what did they get for
their hunting grounds here? The
sword and the bayooct, the justice of
the while man!”
“There is some truth in that,” said
Walter, coloring, “Iv’e often thought
of the injustice done the Indian, and
sometimes fancy that from their blood
wilt spring avengers to curse tbe land
which has been so freely watered by
it.” m
“And win not the wrongs of another
1 colored race call for vengeance also,”
asked the negro. “Is the Indian who
died on his native hills to be pitied, and
no tear shed for the poor African who
j is torn from his home, his wife, children
and kindred, and dragged in chains,
i like a condemned criminal, beyond the
sen, to be beaten and driven like the
brutes? Who} is God? where is he?
i continued the negro, his nostrils dila
i ting and his chest heaving: “does he
not sit in heaven and mark the unex
pressed wailings, the inward prayfirs,
and the heart sickness of those thou
sands of thinking, rational and immor
tal souls, whom the white men drive
and beUt as they do their oxen and hor
ses? Do you know that the negro as
well as the white man, has an undying
spirit that looks to Heaven, and that it
will meet it’s master’s as an equal at
the bar of God Master! God only
is my master!”
“Our English ancestors did all this,”
replied Walter, “and my people and I
are not responsible for it. Slavery is
now a condition of society, and it can’t
be helped; in fact the negroes arc bet
ter off than they would be, if they
were all set free.”
“I am better off free, and w oe be to
the man that attempts to take me,” re
turned Wild Bill.
“Your master has a right to you,
and would be justified in killing you if
you would not surrender,” answered
Walter.
“My master!’ cried the negro,
“young man who is your master?”
“No man,” answered Walter.
“Not even the king?” asked the ne
gro.
“Yes; that he is, he is my sovereign,
and I owe him allegiance
“And ain’t there a talk of throwing
off this allegiance.”
“The people complain of his minis
ters,” replied VV alter.
“And do they not complain of op-j
pression and tyranny.' 1 asked Wild
Bill.
“They do, and they do it justly “’an
swered Walter.
“And if the people were to unite to
throw off the royal yoke and have a
government of their own, wouldn’t you!
join them?”
“That I would.”
“Now, sir, can you blame my peo-'
pie if they wish to throw off the yoke of*
their roasters?’' i
“The case is altogether different,”
said Walter. “In the first place they
couldn’t do it, and therefore it would
be useless bloodshed; in the second
place, we are two distinct nation# liv-|
ing in the same country, and one or;
the other must be masters of it. The;
Americans only wish to dissolve their
connexion with a distant country, youi
wish to destroy a nation. W e are, fort
your own good and ours, obliged to
keep vou in bondage for the present j
and we are justified by ifie laws of God
and man. Iv’e no doubt that some day j
our people will do the best they ©an fer
tile negroes, and try to set them free
when they can do so consistently with
the safety of the whites aad the wel
fare of the blacks. But if you excite,
an insurrection, you will be guilty of
the horrible crimes by civil war,
and you will rivet the chains of your
race for a century longer. I believe
all or nearly all, the white people feel
deeply the responsibility rwtmg on
ihem,' and are truly sorry for the condi
uon of the negroes; they are bis best
friends, I mean the master*. Those
white scampe, with Week hearts wid j
forked tongues, who go about prating
of the horrors of slavery, and trying to.
cause rebellions, are the worst cue
miee of the human race; they are eeek-j
ins their own tndividuai mtereeU, andj
care no more for the blacks them they j
do for the whites, and would sacrifice
both to gain their ends.” A
“I have nothing to do wuh them, j
I Mid the aeg re, “I was only talking of
our right to rebel.’*
I‘You have no right to rebel unless
you have reasonable hopes of success,”
replied Walter, “and ifyou rebel where
j there is no possible chance for you,
you are a wholesale assassin, a pirate,
and as such will be judged both by God
and man.”
“You argue your aide well,” said
f Wild Bill smiling, “I did not think to
find an unpractised youth so c Xpert
f with tha weapons of logic.”
“I can rrturn your compliment,” re
plied Walter, looking curiously at tbe
negro. “I’ve been surprised to hear
such language from”—•—
“From a negro!” exclaimed Wild
Bill, with an equivocal laugh. “I know
very well what you mean, and you need
pot apologise. My people were the
I lowest barbarians in Africa: they have
f been slaves here; and are, I know it
well, vastly inferior to the whites. It
j. is the mode of life that has caused this;
we are ail one people—children of a
common father. My mother was a pet
slave and tolerably well educated. I
was thought to be smart when a boy,
and my mother and my young master
took great pains in teaching me to
read. May God rest their souls in
heaven.”
“Your young master!” cried Wal
ter. “I thought you had no master.”
“I was living in the past just then;
the good old times that are past were
before me. But, as I was going to say,
1 was carefully instructed until I was
twenty. I read when young all tbe
books of my master’s son, and I’ve
been, for years past, a reader of na
ture and a thinker. I can read and
write too; and would you believe me,
I write verses, and set them to music.
You smile, my little friend,” continued
the negro, turning to Utopia. It seems
strange to you that the bloody Wild
Bill should be a musician. Folks when
I am dead and gone, will tell long and
terrible stories about me—they will
tremble at the very mention of my name;
and yet, as my master, God, can wit
ness, my heart yearns with the feel
ings, the hopes, the fears, and the sen
timents that burn in the bosom of this
innocent girl. I’m a great, ugly look
ing monster, ain’t I Utopia?”
“I don’t know sir,” said the girl,
blushing, smiling, and banging her
head.”
“I know I look so,” continued Wild
Bill, “but both of you shut your eyes
and listen to my song and see if it sounds
like that of a robber.”
The negro insisted on Walter’s
obeying his wish, just to see what opin
ion he w'ould form of him from the mere
sound of his voice; and the lad, amu
sed at- ttw request, covered his (ace*
with his hands, as did also Utopia—
while both listened with eager curi
osity.
They were not long in suspense, nor
could they realize that they were in the
presence of a wild man f the wqpds,
as, with a voice full of feeling and
pathos, and to an air plaintive and ten
der, he sang words which, though sim
ple, and even rude, embodied, like all
negro songs, a wild and melancholy
tradition, and breathed on that account,
a sentiment homely, but touching and
sad.
WHAT THEY THINK OF U 8 SOUTH.
[From the FjirfielJ (YViuaaboro, S. C.) HeraU!.]
Frederick Douglass. This no
torious scoundrel, who ran away from
his master and sought retuge
the Abolitionists of the north, on a re
cent occasion delivered an address at
an Abolition gathering in New York,
and took occasion to depict the wanton
ness and inhuman conduct of these fa
natics toward bis “belubbed bredren,”
in the following style:”
“We are, says Douglass, not only a
proscribed people—an insulted people
—but an outraged people—weighed
down under greater oppression than
any other people. Everywhere we are
treated as a degraded people. If we go
to church we are despised there; and
made to take an obscure place though
the preacher talks of ail men
being made of one blood. In the State,
we are taxed equally with all other men;
we pay for the education of the whites,
but regarded so mean and degraded,
that by Slate enactment we are not
trusted even to carry a mail bag twen
ty yards across the street, or even to
lift it offfrom the top of a stage coach.
An ignorant Irishman, however, but
just come to this country, and totally
unacquainted with our institutions, is,
the moment he lands on our shores,
thought fit to be entrusted with tbe
mail bags. We are never tried by our
peers, but by onr enemies. On steam
boats, in hotels, or in the streets, we
are alwaya reminded that we are a de
graded people. Our children are driv
en away from tbe school which we pay
to support. We are compelled to be
by potent circumstances, hewers of
wood and drawers of water—every
where outraged, ill-treated, insulted.”
Thus, Southern bondmen, who have
been induced to forsake their masters
and benefactors, to seek freedom with
penury and want, and even star
vation in many instances, have been
forced and are still compelled to drag
out their existence, discountenanced,
and despised, without even the common
necessariesoflifo, by those (worse than
denwo, hypocrites. The stave, while
in the employ of his master, can have
no care of the morrow. Is he cask?
his master administers the healing
balm. la he naked mad cold? his mas
ter provides the necessary covering.
Poes he want bread his master directs
his footsteps to the ban and unlocks
to hiss tha grain and hide h m eat drink
nod live. Has bo a family hie mas
ter is squatty as easeful to adminiatcr
to their wanta aa ha would to his.
2 m
a
f. In every condition the Southern
slave, who discharges his duty faith
i! fully, enjoys more peace of muid, with
or without a family, thau nine-tenths ol
the laboring white population. The
,1 master is compelled to support his
slave with or without work; but the
V. laboring white man must run the chan
ces for work, and labor night and datj,
11 if he is a man of family, to secure the
M common necessaries of life, aud pro
-11 vide against decrepitude and old age.
whilst the slave may quietly fold his
>1 arms at the setting of the sun, and feel
s secure, that whether infirmity or mis
■j fortune overtake him, his bread and
clothing his master provides.
I The picture which Fredrick Doug
•las* has drawn is a 4 familiar one. Those
If Northern fanatics care not for the hap
piness of the poor black; they seek to
free them that they uiav make their
<misery complete, by driving them from
every species ot employment, and force
them to seek the level of the brute.
The Southern planter is the friend
of the black, and the true benefactor
of his progeny.
ANTI-SLAVERY PEELING IN VIR
GINIA.
j The Richmond Southerner'holds the
following language in relation to public
sentiment in Virginia, on the subject of
slavery:
It is not generally known, yet if is,
nevertheless true, that two-thirds of the
people of Virginia are open and undis
guised advocates of ridding the State of
slavery; and after the year 1850, when
the census is taken, their views will be
embodied in such a form as to startle
the South. We speak understanding!}*.
We have, within the la9t two years,
conversed with more than 500 slave
holders in the State, and 450 out of the
500 expressed themselves ready to unite
on any general plan to abolish slavery,
upon almost any terms.
Abolition fanaticism at the north has
not produced this, but the annexation
of Texas, and the acquisition of territo
ry, have done it. Virginia may be put
down as no longer reliable on this ques
tion. When she goes, the District of
Columbia is free territory; then Dela-j
ware and Maryland will also go, and,
North Carolina and Kentucky will fol
low suit. This will surround the ex
treme South with free States; and when,
that day comes—and it will not be very
long—we would just as soon ow n a par
cel of wild turkeys as so many slaves.
I have conversed with several intel
ligent Virginians, upon the policy of
slavery in their own State, and they
concur in the opinion, that the system
is an incubus upon its energies. They
all recognize the fact, that in order to j
secure prosperity, labor must be made!
honorable, and that while slavery exists,;
it cannot become so to any considerable
extent. I most sincerely believe that
could Virginia awake to-morrow, and
find that every negro had left the State,
her hallelujah would drown the shout I
of the slaves made free. With her
glorious climate, her inexhaustible re- j
gions of coal, her extensive water povv-l
er, her productive soil, and her size and
position among her sister States, Vir
ginia, free from a system which, if ever
to her advantage, is now worse than
useless, would spring upon her feet likH
a giant from a troubled dream, and
leading education, enterprise, and in-!
dustry into her boundless fields, would
soon rekindle the waning star that rep-!
resents her in the national galaxy, and
become as great in name as she is in
native resources, and territorial extent.
SOUTH CAROLINA—THE CURSE
OF SLAVERY,
The present condition of South Caro-,
lina is the legitimate result of devotion
to the slavery system carried out to its
ultimate result. Such a devotiou it per
sisted in, will craze any man or any set
of men.
We would direct the attentioh of all
other Slave States to the condition of
South Carolina, as presenting a specta
cle which they insy present hereafter,
unless they are extremely careful. Mr. i
Calhoun is one of the most gifted rnen
of the day. His mind is masterly, and
yet he has swindled himself out of his
power to influence the nation by surren
dering himself as an abject slave to the,
advocacy ol slavery. So too ol his
State. She has lost her influence m
the councils of the nation because she
views everything through the distorting
medium of slavery. The peculiar in
stitution is all that the people of that
State exhibit any regard for. No on*
of the sciences, none of the arts, noth
ing in philosophy, or in manufactures,.
no great discovery or important inven-,
tion is suffered for a moment to distract
tbeir attention from slavery. It is the
only thing they live for—it is the only
thing they would die for—it is the only
thing which would render Paradise itself
attractive to them. Such a monomania
is fearful. It is one of the most wretch
edly humiltating spectacles recorded ini
history. No enemy of South Carolina
could wish her a more bitter punish
ment than that which the system of
slavery has inflicted on her. If men
will ding to a atupenduous outrage and
of wrong, they cannot expect to escape
the retribution which everlasting justice
exacts.
Let Kentucky and the other Stave
States be warned by the condition of
South Carolina to escape the miserable
kit she is now consigned to. A more
appalling cannot be imagined than that
of a State which thinks ot and cares (or
nothing hot slavery. A mas dares to,
pray far “universal liberty,” and he ui|
ordered to leave the Staio wrthin two j
daya at the peril of his li fit- Can pub
lic sentiment in a republic possibly sink
lover in degeoerscy than is indicated
b j such conduct? i
JOHN DICt, Pt uusHo*
WHOLE NO. 99.
U is tcrune thought to be worthy oi
if a man in South Carolina de
i)ounce the wretched system of negro
slavery' Wire re can a more odious
tyrant be found than exists there. 1
‘here never was a poor aud wretched
underling nf the Persian government
who manifested a more degrading tyr
rrmny than the leading men of South
f a roll n a uphold To say that freedom
ot thought and liberty of conscience can
exist in such a State is exceedingly ab
surd. e need not cross the Atlantic
to find victims oi despotism on whom to
lavish our sympathy, We need no*
travel beyond South Carolina if we wish
to feel odium for h tyranny the most
perfect and utter. There is no tyranny
exercised in Siberia which is so grind
ing, so ruthless, so shameless, and so
utterly uijust as that which degrades
the most devoted of the slaveholding
Sta es rue thts confederacy —LcmmUtc
Examtner.
Rt.NNISG AWAY FROM HAPPI.
NESS
“On Saturday last an affecting scene
took place in the cars, about two miles
below Newark, which was calculated
tu totich the heart of the most inhuman
slaveholder in the country, were he pre
sent to witness it. It never tell to our
lot to w itness the horror and fear the
poor negro has oi slavery, as upon this
occasion. Some three free colored
persons were in and should
have got out at the Newark depot, but
on enquiring were informed that the
next station was the place—they kept
their seats tor about one mile, when
they learned they were going at a rapid
rate to Maryland—then a scene follow
ed that we cannot find language to de
scribe. One was a young woman, aud
the others a man, his wife and child.—
Fh<? young woman was so frightened,
that sooner than run the risk of going
to Maryland, jumped from the platform,
and next followed the man with his
child, and were safe; his wife’s turn
came next, but observing her great
danger, we seized her by the arm aud
prevented her, assuring her that we
would get her a pass to return when we
arrived at Elkton; she implored us to
let her go, that she would be arrested
and sold into slavery; she fell on her
knees and wrung her hands—a more
oainful or affecting sight we never be
iield.
e mentioned the case of this poor
woman to Charles Brooks, Esq., clerk
for the company, who, to his credit,
immediately repair’d to Mr. Wells, had
her provided for and sent back as soou
as the train from Baltimore arrived.—
VV e have witnessed many scenes, but
in this instance the poor negroes 1 fear
of being sokianto slavery, ami (heir love
of freedom surpassed nil.
No doubt had Mr, McCreary, the
slave-catcher, been present at the de
pot, he would have seized this unfortu
nate woman, who would probably have
been sold into slavery, to be separated
from her husband‘and children, for the
sake ot getting the amount which the
odious law of the State allows
W e called on Mr. Vanderford, of the
Cecil Democrat, and stated the above,
who admitted that it was n hard case;
but said it was the only way to prevent
abolitionists from coming among the/n.
Has slavery so many horrors? Where
is the Christian, the Philanthropist, or
the Republican who can justify it? If
there is a just God, what must be the
doom ot the slave stealer and stave
dealer. Wilmington Chicken
Severely True. —Dr. Dixon, in his
Personal Narrative, says, “I was ex
ceedingly sorry to perceive that the
Americans exceed us as a novel-read
people. At every public place, the
termini of the railroad, landing places
ot the steamboat, and often on board as
well, numbers of lads are found vending
this trash. The people in general, the
ladies especially, are continually seen
arnunngor exciting themselves by rev
elling in this world of fancy, often ex
tremely vulgar aud foolish To give an
instance: on one of my journeys by
railroad, there sat before rue a family,
consisting of a husband, wife, and child,
perhaps two years old The mother
and wite, a very genteel and lady-like
person, got hold of one of these novels,
and ucarceiy lifted tier eyes from her
book the whole of the distance
travelled, which occupied the
greater part of the day. The husband
in the meantime, had the entire care of
the little boy. It cried, and he put it
into good humor; it slept on his lap,
ami he fanned it; it required loud, he
ransacked the reticule to find cakes and
sweetmeats, rthd in fact, was a perfect
nurse. All this time the mother was
completely absorbed in her tale, and
look not the least notice of cither hus
band or boy; and in fact, seemed un
conscious that they were present, or
that she had any duties to perform to
wards one or the other. This pernicious
habit is ealmg into the American mind,
and will produce sad and deleterious
effects on a great scale.”
Sco;cii Valoil Some time sgo, a
sailor, who bad formerly belonged to
his Majesty's navy, went one Sunday
to church in his net**** town ufKirkaldy,
where he behaved himself with great
propriety, until the minister read his
te*t, which was as follows: 4 Who tcxU
jSO op t rd/« at to the battle at Hamath
(Mead 7
The sailor, having first crammed a
quid of tobacco into his cheek, rose up,
put on hie hat, and then looking about
hi mi, ami seeing nobody moving, ex
claimed, "You cowardly lubbera, will
none of you go Dorn my eyes 111 go
fur one?" So out be went, giving three
cheers at the door, to the amazement
of all present.
Copy of a letter to a member of the Boston School Committee
Nrw Bedford. August 10, 1649.
Mr Dear Sir —Your note of yesterday
u before me. The nurftber of colored people
10 New Bedford ie ebout twelve hundred.
No distinction i* made in rot of our schools
on account of color.
The number of colored persons in New
Bedford, in proportion to the whole popula*
non, is supposed to be larger than in any
other town or City in the free Statea.
Our colored children have alwaye attended
our public schools. They are to be found to
day in every school in the city.
Several have passed through the whole
course at the High School.
The colored children would not attend any
school e-tabhsbed exclusively for them.
About 17 years ago, a proposition was
made to establish in this town a school ex
clusively for the colored children.
The town was then divided into sehool
dietnete. An approbation was made by the
own for the porpuae—the purpose was dir,-
tmcily slated in the voice.
I was then a member of the school com*
miitee, and was, I think, chairman of a sub
committee appointed to carry the vote mu
effect.
Before moving in the matter, I requested
and obtained leave to ask legal a-lvice upon
this question ‘Can a colored tehild be ex
eluded from a school kept in the district ir
which it resides, on the ground that there u
established by the town a school for all the
colored chi'dren to attend t*
Thir question I submitted to the Hen,
Charles H. Warren, them a resident in New
Bedford.
He gave me his opinion in writing, and hit
answer was a decided negative.
The opinion was an elaborate one, and can,
no doubt, now be found on the file* of the
e:h<K>l committee.
Nothing fuither was done by the echool
committee. No school for colored children
was established.
The decision of Judge Warren was ac
quiesced in at tb* next annual meeting with
out a disaent'.iig vote, and the subject has
never been named either in town meeting or
citv council since.
Thus have the colored children always en
joyed the advantages of our public school as
fully as the white.
I waa fifteen years on the school com
mittee, and could never discover that any
disadvantage resulted from the admission ol
the colored children. It waa never made a
matter of complaint, either by teachers,
parents, or guardians
AH are and ever have been satisfied, and
no schools in our Commonwealth stand high
er than ours.
Thus it lias been determined by an experi
rneut in a community having a very largt
pot (ion ot coloiod children, that a course ol
action with regard to their attendance ai
school, in accordance with the letter and
spirit of our Constitution and laws, result* in
no disadvantage to the white children.
The same course i» now pursued at Nan
tucket.
There, after a long struggle, the old pre
judice gave way; the rights of the colored
children, ‘equality before ihe law,’ were re
cognut-d, and the distinction which had for
i;,any years been made was done away.
My own opinions and feelings upon the
whole subj ct are shown by the foregoing.
Here it would make no difference whether
the teacher was black or white. Not a color
ed clniii would attend a public school estab
lished exclusively for them.
I cannot, uf course, judge of the effect, in
your city, of the plan you propose but it
appears to me that the evils winch now troub
le you, and which are demanding the atten
tion of your School Board, are of a char
acter not ‘.o be remedied by changing the
complexion of the teacher.
But you asked me tor ftfcta, not opinions
1 have given you such as seetn to have t
bearing upon the question.
Very truly yours,
JAMES B. CONGDON.
Slavery in California.
Fears are entertained by thefrtendsof free
doni in all quarters, that California is deslinec
to be cursed with the ciftse of curses. Th<
following extract from the Alabama Journal
which we find in the National Era, is by m
incans calculated to allay such fears
“Negroes in California. —lt has lonj
been apparent, since Mr. Polk purchased lh<
Mexican Territones, declaring, at the samt
time, that they must, from the nature o
things, be free territory, that the only way tc
make them slave States, was for slaveholder!
to emigrate there with their property in suffi
cient numbers lo control the policy of the
country. That they could have done so will
safety to their property, is now apparent
Those fioin this quatier who carried negroes
have had o trouble with them, and it is fount
they adh« r< to their masters there with great
er seal s 1 devotion than elsewhere. Sev
eral have written back, expressing their re
grets that itiev did not carry with them hands
from the r plantations. A gentleman from
Macon c umy, who took out three good
hands, has written back that he hires them
out at three hundred dollars per month each
and has had no difficulty in retaining them
Every man there is so immersed in hi* uwr
absorbing pursuit* that he has no time or in
cliuaiton lo interfere with the business o
others, or engage, even if so inclined, ir
abolition movements.
Much the largest portion of the populatiot
at the mines having the means, it is stated
ould purchase negroea to aid them, wer<
tiey in market. A portion of tine wot!
at ttie mines, namely excavating, la hard an<
difficult, and must be accomplished by manua
lab -r—-hence the great necessity and advan
tuge of the service of able bodied negroes
If the Southern emigrants had invested then
capita) in negroes in the place of goods, Ac.
wtucti they took with them, their laboi
would have rapidly made them independent
and their dimple would have been follower
by others wiih their slaves, in sufficient num
bera io have controlled the policy of the terri
tory. Tne plan set on foot last year bv Mr.
Howard, of Georgia, fui large bodies lo go ii
company, would, there is little doubt, hav<
been successful if u had been carried out
Companies of twenty, fifty or a hundred
settling together, would be able lo protec
their property in all emergenciea, if by ain
chance it should be endangered. \V# lean
that many have this enterprise still in con
temptation, and as the season approaches fo
the passage ol the Isthmus, we trust it wil
be carried out.”
VoTta of the Colored P*orL*.— Th
Herald of Sunday, and that of Tuesday, con
tain reports of meetings of the colored peopl
of this city held on Friday and Monday ev«
rung last, exiled with refeiance to the eleetto
on Tue.-sdav and their duty therein. Th
Herald i reporter is true enough to tha apir
ol that paper lo endeavor to make the whol
affair a burlesque, but a* there was evtdantl
some object to be gamed the report is fat
enough to show, in spite of the tnterjectior
al ah' yah*' of the reporter, and the o<
cusionul introduction of ‘Sambo, that th
meetings were characterised by good orde
and ability in very favorable cootraat wit
the meetings of the Herald's partteula
friends, Th* of Tammany Hall
The following Ujf Resolution* pa*
sr-d or. Friday evening
Resolved, That in ihe opinion of thu
meeting, it is the solemn duty of the t»n oi
twelve hundred colored voters in the city and
county of New York, to exercise the right
which they poaeese, sod to vindicate the same
At each aoff every elect .on.
Resolved, Thu it ia expedient for ua t at
the present tune, to identify ourselves with
either of ib« great political parties. only no
far as they will promote the interests of free
dom.
Resolved, That it is the duty of every
lovet of his country and well wisher of his
race, to support such men at the romiog elec
tion as are pledged to the principles of Free-
Soil, free labor, free speech and free men.
This resolution led to lengthened discus
sion, some maintaining that there were no
such men to auppott, while others held that
theie were.
Resolved. That the doctrine set foith in
the creed of Democracy,at Tammany Hall,
on the 29th of October, is unworthy of the
name of Democracy, and meet* our universal
disapprobation.
Resolved, That the candidates nominated
by the coalition of the Democrats and Free
Sol'.ersare unworthy tha confidence of a free
P'eople, and ought to be defeated at the com*
ng election, and that we will use our utmost
nflnence to effect the tame-
The tendency here ia evidently Wbiggish,
but then we can’t expect the colored people
to be better and more intelligent than their
neighbors. However the Resolutions were
not passed without considerable oppasition.
On the second evening the following were
adopted
Resolved, That we reiterate the sentiments
and endorse the doctrine, set forth in the
resolutions adopted at our last meeting, on
Friday evening, and wo wi 1 do all ia our
power to carrv them into effect.
Resolved, That the times call for the
laying aside of our party predilection*, and
for the colored voter* to tell the political
parties, that we will favor such of them as
will do most for our cause—the cause of
freedom, of justice, and of right
Resolved, That the best front at present
i presented by the two great political parties.
is that of the Whigs which w hilst it is not
i all that we wish, yet w-e will assist, and
cause our political strength to be felt—hopm?
that othera may be induced to outstrip them
in the race of freedom, in acknowledging the
oppieased American's rights.— Anti-Slavery
Standard.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, NOVEMBER 16, 1848.
The Destiny of Colored Americans.
It is impossible to settle, by the light uf the
present, and by 'he experience of the past,
any thing, definitely and absolutely; as to the
future condition of the colored people of this
country but, so far as present indications de
j terinine, it is clear that this land must contin
ue to be the home of the colored man so long
as it remains the abode of civilization and re
ligion. For more than two hundred years
we have been identified with its soil, its pro
ducts, and its institutions; under the sternest
and b.ttercst circumstances of slavery and op
pression—under the lash of Slavery at the
South—under the sling of prejudice and mal
ice at the North—and under hardships the
most unfavorable to existence and population,
we have lived, and continue to live and in
crease. The persecuted red man of the for
est, the original owner of the soil, has, step
by step, retreated from the Atlantic lakes and
rivers; escaping, as it were, before the foot-1
steps of the white man, and gradually disap
pearing from the face of the country. He
looks upon the steamboats, the railroads, and
canals, cutting and crossing hia former bunt
ing grounds; and upon the ploughshare,
throwing up the bones of his venerable ances
tors, and beholds his glory departing—-and his
heart sickens at the desolation. He spurns
the civilization —he hates the race w hich has
despoiled him, and unable to measure arms
with his superior foe, he dies
Not so with the black man. More unlike
the European in form, feature and color—cal
led to endure greater hardships, injuries and
insults than those to which the Indians have
been subjected, lie yet lives and prospers un
der every disadvantage. Long have his ene
mies sought to expatriate him, and to teach
his children that this is not their home, but
in spite of all their cunning schemes, and sub
tle contrivances, hia foolprints yet mark the
soil of his birth, and he gives every indica
tion that America will, for ever, remain the
home ol his posterity. We deem it a settled
point that the destiny of the colored roan is
bound up with that of the white people of this
country be the destiny of the latter what it
may.
It is idle—worse than idle, ever to think of
our expatriation, or removal. The history of
the colonization society must extinguish all
such speculations. We are rapidly filling up
the number of four millions and ail the gold
of California combined, would be insufficient
to defray the expenses attending our coloniza
tion. We ate, as laborers, 100 essential to the
interests of our white fellow-countrymen, to
make a very grand effort to drive us fiora this
country among probable events. While labor
is needed, the laborer cannot fail to be valued
and although passion and prejudice may some
times vociferate against us, and demand our
expulsion, such efforts will only be spasmodic,
and can never prevail against the sober second
thought of self-interest. We are here, and
here we are likely to be. To imagine that we
shall ever be eradicated is absurd and ridicu
lous. We can be remodified, changed, and
assimilated, but never extinguished. We re
peat, therefore, that wt are here and that
ibis is our country and the question lor the
philosophers and statesmen of the land ought
to be, What principles should dictate the pol
icy of the action towards us 1 We shall nei
ther die out, nor bo driven out; but shall go
with this people, either as a testimony against
them,or as an evidenco in their favor through
-1 out their generations. We are clearly on
their hands, and must remain there for ever,
i All thia we say for the benefit of those who
lute the negro more than they love then
t country. In an article, under the caption of
“Government aod us Subjects,” (published
i in our last week’s paper,) we called attention
e to the unwise, aa well as the unjust policy
t usually adopted, by our Government, towards
t tta colored citizens. We would continue to
y direct attention to that policy, and mour hotn
e ble way, we would remonstrate against it, aa
i- iraught with evil to the white man, as well as
to his victim.
e The white man's happmes* cannot be pur
r chased by the black man’s misery. Virtue
i cannot prevail among the white people, by us
i destruction among the black people, who form
a part of the whole community. is evident
that whits and black “must fall or Sourish to
gether.” In the light of this greet truth,
lews ought to be enacted, and institutions e»-
—ell distinctions, founded on cots-
U ‘•W, rcpediaied, and
pleaton,ought to be rep*~
for ever sboltehed—aod every rigui, r
and immunity, bow enjoyed by the white own,
ought to b 3 u freelv greeted to the ou of
color.
Where “knowledge is power,” that nation
is the most powerful which baa the largeet
population of tnteUigeal men for a nation to
cramp, and circumeeribe the mental faculties
of a ciasa of its inhabitant?, is aa nowise as it
is cruel, unoe u, in the same proportion, sac
rifices its power and happiness. The Ameri
can people, in the light of this reasoning, are,
at this moment, in obedience to their pnde and
folly, (we say nothiog of the wickedness of
the act,) wasting oee sixth part of the ener
gies of the entire nttion by transforming three
millions of its men mto beasts of harden.—
Whst a loss to industry, skill, intention, (to
say nothing of ita foul and corrspting influ
ence,; is Slavery'. How it ties the hand,
ctamps the mind, darkens the understanding,
and paralyses the whole man Nothing is
more evident to s man who reasons at all,
than that America is acting an irrational part
in continuing the slave system at the South,
aid in oppressing its free colored citizens at
the North. Regarding the nation as an indi
vidual, the act of enslaving and oppressing
thus, is as wild and senseless as it would be
for Nicholas to order the amputation of the
right arm of every Russian soldier before en
gaging in a war with‘France. We again re
peat that Slavery ia the peculiar weakness of
America, as well as ita peculiar crime; and
the day may yet come when this visionary and
oft repeated declaration will be found to con
tain great truth.—r. d.
The North Star Fair at Philadelphia.
A letter from a lady connected with the
Committee of the Fair informs us that the
Committee have experienced serious difficulty
in securing a suitable room in which to hold
ihe Fair. Until the last few days they were
relying on the promise of the proprietor of the
Assembly Building; but this gentleman, on.
learning that the Fair was to be conducted by
colored ladies, has refused to let his rooms for
that purpose. When he made the promise be
supposed that the parties who were to occupy
them were white persons—and he now excu
ses his failure to fulfil his contract on that
ground. This is but another illustration of
the persecuting spirit that every where pre
vails in this land against the colored people
and is also anothei reason in favor of holding
the contemplated Fair.
The ladies were informed, by thisgentleman
of his word that if they could assure him that
the Fair wa9 to be under the management of
white persons, the rooms were at their service.
How unspeakably mean and disgraceful is
this requirement! Colored persons, it seems,
then, are not even to be encouraged in labor
ing for their own elevation, and for the free
dom of their own brothers and sisters, unless
their efforts aie under the management of
white persons! This is a new feature in the
numlestation of the prejudice and hatred with
which we have been so long and painfully re
garded. But let not our listers be disheart
ened by this shameful and fraudulent treat
ment let them rather put forth greater exer
tion, and evince a more determined spirit in
the holy cause in which they are embarked.
The opposition with which they meet should
only tend to quicken their energies, and to
double their diligence. The greater the ob
stacles with which they have to contend, the
greater will be the victory when it is gained.
Our transatlantic friends will see, in this new
form of cruelty and injustice, a good reason
for holding up the hands of that class who are
the objects of Buch unnatural treatment. We
say to our coloted sisters in Philadelphia, Bs
FIRM—^'DAUNTED —AND PERSEVERE. You
are not without friends; and the time will
come when your righteous endeavors to ame
liorate and improve your own condition, and
to rescue from ignorance, and from the gal
ling yoke of bondage, three millions of your
countrymen, will be appreciated by the world,
and crowned with success by a righteous God.
—r. d.
The Sultan.— The article in oui last
week’s paper, headed “The Suliaa and the
Czar,” was written before we saw the letter
of Kossuth to Lard Palmerston, published in
the same paper. This will account to our
readers for our commendation of the conduct
of the Sultan.—f. n.
Henry Box Brown, in Milford.— lt was
a few minutes past the hour at which the
meeting was appointed when he arrived, and
the Hall was then crowded. But the people
had not done coining they can e long after
wards and brought in seats, and finally stood
up i i the vacant places about the aisles. The
earnest attention of ih.s large company bore
ample tesumony to the Unillnig interest which
his sufferings and escape reated in their
minds. Their hearts and their pockets an
swered the call made upon them, and the
general cause of Anti-Slavery as well aa hia
individual case received an impulse by it.
Wheu the incidents of a life in, and an escape
lroiu slave.y are crowded into an hour’s
time, there must be some rather sudden pas
sages from the pathetic to the ludicrous.
There are several such passages in bis nar
rative, and the audience anaweted according
ly and at the close of hie song the singer
was greeted with a hearty round of dapping.
These demonstrations on the part of the au
dience were a little annoying to some of tha
Methodist friends. There had been a funeral
at the Church during the day, which of course
rendered their minds un.re liable to be griev
ed by such matters than they otherwise
would have teen.
His narrative is certainly a swift witness
against what passes fur Christianity in Ihe
land. Every peison concerned in the cruel
ties which he suffered was a professed Chris
tian. The clamier of himself, (who, when 1
he besought him to purchase his wife and
children, to save them from separation, bid
him get another wife,) Was a Presbyterian;
ihe claimer and seller of his wife and children
was an Esiacopalian and their purchaser a
Methodist "minister Practical Christian.
Of Mim Freduka Bremer we can only say
that she is, personally, rather stout, rather
rosy, and rather gray. She i* about 56 years
of age, and all her beauty seems to have
struck in.—.V Y Mirror.
Tar Sarah Banos.—This well known
steam propeller, heretofore running from thie
port to Europe, has been taken up for the
California trade. We understand she is un
der charter for thiee years to run from the
ocean port* or on the Sacramento.— Tnbmm.
FoartiTuas oi Freedom.— William, Mot
ored man emancipated by the late Mrs. Caul,
was brought before the Mayor, yesterday, fox
refnaimog in the cuy twelve mouths after hie
manumission, in violation of the statute,
which provides that all emancipated persons
1 shall leave the State within one year after
their freedom has hew pro««d, or forfeit their
right to it end “be adjudged lo be Held” peb
hciy as a slave. Tbe Meyer directed
William to leave the eily before ike text
j Grand Joiy term, or be would have to "m
hr# liberty ßichmond RtmtUk.
California a Free State-
Til* steamer Empire City, am»e<i -at New
Talk, oa Sunday last. She brings tatelli
geeee of the bolding of a Contention to form
a Cooeuttrbon for California. The Cooten
tfoo commenced business on the 4th Sept., by
eboueing Robkst Scmflk, of tbe District of
Sonora, President. Tbe members took tbe
oath to support the Constitution of tbe United
Status. Some were opposed to organizing a
State government, but a majority of (be Con*
rent ion were of a different opinion, and tbe
übjectora gave way. Tbe vote stood Bto 88.
Tbe first section of tbe Constitution sffirms, in
tbe words of the pteanabie to tbe Declaration
of Independence, "that all men are by nature
free,*’ Ac. Tbe seventeenth section refers
to slavery, and is thus explicitly worded
“Striker Slavery, nor Involuntary Servitude
uniats as a Punishment of Crime, shall ever be
tolerated in this State.' 1
So far, satisfactory. But bow speedily do
tbe Californians forget their assertion about
the equality of ail men! They no sooner set
about settling tbe suffrage question, than they
begin forthwith to contradict themselves. In
dians, Africans, and descendants of Africans,
are specially excepted, as not to be allowed
the right to vote, or, of course, in any way to
interfere with tbe measures of government.
Thua is tbe colored man, go where he will,
under the flag of the United States, insulted
and degraded. We are thankful, however,
for tbe clause prohibiting slavery. ThfM
the result of the large emigration from the
Free States. It is probably different from
wh:,t was anticipated by our slaveholding
government. The South, no doubt, hoped t<>
extend her patriarchal reign over the territory.
In this, Calhoun and company are disappoint
ed. Slavery will not be permitted in Califor
nia. Thank God.'—j. d.
What is my Duty t
If the Rev. Theodore Clapp, and others of
a like stamp, instead of arguing about the de
ctees of God, and endeavoring to prove from
Scripture that Canaan was cursed, &c.,
would ask themselves this question, put by a
friend of ouis, to a clergyman in England,
(the Rev. Dr. Marsh, of Leamington.) they
would not find so much difficulty as they now
profess to have, in recognizing and allowing
the rights of colored men. The reply of Dr.
Marsh is well worthy the attention of the
heartless pro-slavery and degenerato ministry
of ibis land. He said, “I enter into all your
feelings. If I bad a trumpet that could reach
America, I should say, If you go to Heaven
you must meet colored men there. Has not
God made of one blood all men Is the mu
cosum corpus, or color between the skins, a
mark of Heaven's disapprobation If it was,
Jehovah found fault with those who helped
forward tbe calamity of the Jews, though
they were under His ban.
If your question were properly considered,
“What is my duty?” the colored people
would receive kindness and attention from the
whites. I sometimes tremble for the latter.
God hates oppression
The National League.
Frkderick Douglass, —Dear Sir, I am
sorry there is so much apathy manifested on
the part of our leading men to your noble and
philanthropic scheme of a national union
among the oppressed of the Free States oi
tbe U. S. A. The cause of this wide spread
supineness I know not. But if it is in conse
quence of its origin, it is most unchristian and
wicked, and the assertion of our enemies will
turn out to be the fact; “that we are jealous
of, and will traduce the character of those
among us who possess superior talents and
higher attainments.” Heaven grant, that
they may deliver themselves from such a
charge by coming out in favor of a national
league, and the union of their down-trodden
brethren. Every colored man who can real
ize his true condition, and that of his 500,-
000, brethren at the North, must see at
tbe slightest glance, “that a union of the op
pressed for the sake of freedom,” is the very
thing we want. The measure is entitled to
respect, and the originator to the confidence
of his brethren and the people. He is a de
voted friend of the slave, and of the eleva
tion of the free colored people of the north,
an extraordinary man, “without a model, and
without a shadow.”
In reference to the place of holding the
Convention, 1 think it would be more just to
ward the Western portion of our people, to
say Cleveland or Buffalo; however, be that as
it may, 1 am in favor of a national league.
We will lay it before the people of this place
as soon as practicable, and let you know what
they may determine about it. The only bar
riers that will prevent ua from forming a per
fect union, will be the church and clergy; for
we have held some anti-slavery meetings in
the A. M. E. Church here, bui we are relia
bly informed that we can bold no more, be
cause we attseked the pro-slavery character
of tbe church, and told them that they should
not let slaveholders and their abettors preach
in their pulpit. For these things we are to
be excluded. But we can expect nothing
better, when a Rev. M. T. Newsom, a color
ed man, aaya, that none of our meetings have
done any good, as yet, either as conventions
or otherwise. Tour valuable paper would
have a wider circulation, were it not for this
demoralizing and damning influence that ihey
continually exert over our people- If you
were here it would be otherwise.
W. R. G.
Cbilucothk, O. Nov. 4th 1849.
Slavs Cass.— The 28tb alt., a free color
ed woman, with her child in her arms, the
laitet born a slave, and claimed by the roaster,
were found on board the steamboat Express,
on the passage to Philadelphia from Delaware
City, and being put on board the steamer
Balloon, oo her downward trip, were convey
ed back to Dover, and eaat into pnson. The
devoted mother had previously made an eff >rt
to escape on the Balloon, bat having no mon
ey to pay her fare, was *uspeci«-d, and put
mfoor* at Delaware City .-Upland Del.
Ajm-dLAVxsY Lbctcrs.—We were high
ly erne tiaioed in listening to an able address
delivered in the school-house oo Wednesday
evening, Mth wet., by Rev EH. Nevio in
which be dessoueuatcil very clearly and forci
bly that the atn of American Slavery lies at
fbe doer of tbe Ministers who will not “open''
their “mouth for the dumb,” and the church
es that fellowship the slaveholder. Whew
•itt p«o-*lav#ry churches learn the necessity
of repemaaos and reforms ik»<i When wui
tbe Ministers in these churches get then eyes
opened to see that they are doing more for
the cross d infidelity than ell the Voltaire*,
Tol»*ys,er Paines that have ever written*—
Concord Prm Press.
Report of Ike Foil
SiiH*e the Ad nail Baxter in Dec-* l** l
Anti-Slavery friends in Western New York
have opened a More for the benefit of the
cause m eleven vU'ages in the vicinity of
Rochester. Although ibe amount of labor
performjd may seem to deserve more cheer
ing success, yet, they have all proved, with
one exception, encouraging sod interesting
occasions, and by the efibrt, we believe, much
good has been done. It has bean a medium
through ’which a knowledge of our principle#,
our measures, our faith and our works have
been spread more extensively sod osefully
among the people than thej otherwise would
have been in any other w^y.
We are often placed in the cofhpaoy of
men and women of diverse prejudice, and pre
dilections, who arc yet willibg to enquire.
Some seem to understand the evils of slavery
and wish for its overthrow, but are either too
selfish or two cowardly to be openly identi
fied with the friends, and meaaurea of the
cause; others are consoling themselves with
the idea that the political parties are doing
the work, and do not seem to see the impor
tance of keeping up our higher standard, and
continuing to urge them up to the platform of
**JVo union with SlaLtholders” neither do they
seem to dfee that if our standard of emancipa
tion should fall, theirs woidffihdl also. Some
who have been active Aixmtiojtfsts seem to
jnaye fallen into a staia ofeete on the subject,
strangely imagining iW time of their rest has
come. Their ears seem to have grown heavy
so that they do not hear the clanking of the
bondman’s chains nor the sighing of the poor
and needy. Otheratbere are, who were ready
and anxious to join with us, but had not be
fore seen how they could do it. Others are
alarmed fot tho safely of their religious or
ganizations, showing thereby that they know
their dangerous and unholy position and
their guilty sanction of the wicked sys
tem of slavery, a system of all others the most
sinful, and therefore its calls are the loudest
upon us for our earnest endeavors for its abol
ishment. Let us keep the faith; without it
we shall do nothing; with it we shall do much
even the accomplishment of our end and aim.
A report of the Henrietta, Williamson, and
Canandaigua Fairs, was made last spring and
published in the North Starjit is therefore un
necessary to speak of them now, but vve wish
to speak of that at Macedon and of the friends
there and in the vicinity, who are ever ready
exiend a helping hand in every good cause.
The Wiibuis, Doiys, Smiths, GatcheJs, Her
eudeens, and Hoags had but to know that
there was to bo a fair, and they were ready
to do their duty. The largest hall in the
place was pri cured and most lastefuuily dec
orated with curtains, evergreens, and mot
toes, and the tables for relreshtnents were
most bountifully laden with choice varieties
of luxurious delicacies; the young ladies and
gentlemen, and those more advanced in years
seemed as if striving w ho should be the most
useful, and although the slanderous tongue oi
negro hateis was vociferous in the street, none
seemed airaid, but nobly met either in action
or woid, all that such heartless malevolence
poured upon them. Such faithfulness to prin
ciple, especially in the young is truly heart
cheering.
At Palmyra, the friends of the cause are
few in number, but liberal in spirit and kind
in feeling, although in regard to inviting oth
ers into the Anti-Slavery service, father weak
jin laith; hence the burden of the fair came
upon our friends Sexton, San.ord, Aldrich,
and Anderson. Tney are especially worthy
to be ranked with the friends of the oppressed.
At Victor, we met the Peats, Balls, Uptons,
iSymonds, Wai ings, and Uphams and at
West Bloomfield, the Collins, Munsons,
Beebes, Beechers, Websters, Carmans,
Turners and Cnapins, all of whom weie ready
to forward the object of our mission, and
heartily engaged in making themselves use
ful tnrough the day and evening. At each
place was furnished a grand refreshment ta
ble, excelling in richness and abundance.
Nothing seemed too good or too much to be
offered on tins Anti-Slavery altar. The
grand and beautiful face of their country
seem* to have been reflected upon the hearts
of the inhabitants.
Through the influence of Mr. Munson at
Bloomfield, we were invited to hold our fair
in the basement of theCongregatioual Church
which we gladly accepted, and record it here
as a testimony of their liberality if not of
j their Anti-Slavery. At Ml. Morris, the
Committee received the friendly attention of
Mr. and Mrs. Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. Sleep
er, Bacon and Bond. At Scoltsviile, Mi.
Tarbox, Ailing and Beckwith, claim the es
pecial thanks of the committee for their read
iness to aid according to their several gifts.
Where the work devolves on so tew, the
greater the responsibility, and by us the more
thankfully received. Honeyoye Fall* may
he set down as a failure. There was not only
a general dearth of anti-slavery feeling, but
alsu of everything cheering in the place. At
Lockport we foiud ourselves enjoying the
generous liospit i y and favor of Mr. and Mrs.
Burns, Mr. aud Mrs. Scalding, Mrs. Witch
er, Petubo ia, Klein and Hoag. At first, the
aspect looked rather discouraging, a 1 believ
ing that in a cause so unpopular nothing could
be done, and therefore, were hesitating to do
anything themselves; bat after one or two en
ergetic friends made man:feat their resolve to
do what they could, the prospect soon began
to brighten, and the result w as most cheering.
At West Bloomfield we were favored with
the gratuitous aac of the Congregational
Church and the kind entertainment and aid of
Mr. Hall, Hopkins, Barnard and Ainsworth.
The friends who assisted here are all the more
entitled to out respect, in coo side ration of
their strong adherence to the Liberty Party.
This is the last of our aeries of fain for the
season, and if the name* of some kind friends
and benevolent donors have been forgotten,
their works were appreciated and recorded on
the psge of unceasing gratitude.
We are indebted to several of oar Roches
tea anti-slavery friends for their assistance in
attending a portion of this tehee of Fairs, but
wa are especially grateful to ooi Eoglisk
friends Julia and Eioa Griffiths, for then
persevering and sirenoeu* efforts to reedei
these fairs successful- They have attended si
of them sad by their example shewed them
selves worthy of the great cause which ihej
are faithfully laboring to promote. Bel ahovi
all do we feel that the sooeese of these fair
has been promoted by the never tiring exer
lions of Frederick Doug law, wheat indomif
ble energy no obstacle, and whore soul
stirring eloquence dissipated doubts where*-
er they existed, and raised op friends where
none bad appeared. This noble member ol
a proscribed and suffering race, to whose ele
vation and improvement he is devoting all his
energies, attended every fair and delivered
lectures at all the villages where they were
held, besides fulfilling his editorial duties and
laboring for the glorious cause m other ways
and other placet.
Which is respectfully submitted by
AMY POST, Chm. of Com
The Gold Region.
Some recent accounts from California, are
not of a very flattering description. The fol
lowing letter, written by a medical practi
tioner, to his friend in Boston, wefind in the
Courier. It will help to make some greedy
adventurers pause and reflect, before starting
out on a wild goose expedition after Gold
Sacramsnto City, Aug. 19, 1849.
•Here I am at last, in this city of dust—not
but the dust of the earth, which
not only fills the air, but the eves. shoes,
stockings, pantaloons and shirt, so that one
can hardly recognize his own person, unless
he is weil acquainted with himself—and very
few arc so in this part of the world.
On the subject of gold, the plain truth is
this, there is a plenty of that precious metal
in the bowels of the earth in this region—this
is beyond dispute; but that it is found in such
large quantities and lumps as has been repre
sented, is not true.
Many of our Naw-Englanders break down
even before they get to the gold region, and
die with fatigue and heat. Those who reach
the mines find the labor so excessive, that
they abandon the enterprize and return to this
place, or San Francisco, or some other tow n,
and follow an employment more congenial to
their taste and health. Others hold out,
and generally obtain from three to twenty
dollars per day, but more generally, as an
average, about one ounce per day—sixteen
dollars’ worth.
There are but few who can hold out to do
such hard work consequently, much sickness
and distress for want of funds, provisions,
medicines, nursing, &c., are experienced
among the hard-working miners. It has
been my intention to proceed no further than
this place—Sutter’s Fort, (Sacramento City)
—l5O miles up the river from San Francis
co, and the mines are 60, 75, 100, and 175
miles further up the river. It cost me SI4H
to get a few goods and myself from San Fran
cisco to this place, and only 175 from
Boston round Cape Horn—27,ooo miles, ac
cording to the mate’s log. You will wonder
at this but it is ow’ing to a combination
among the rich merchants at San Francisco
and the high price of labor. 1 have bought
some tents, and am taking care of a few sick
individuals.
lain doing pretty well [in medical practice]
for a commencement. I have written lor my
son to come out here, and bring the balance ol
my stock; when it is gone, we shall return
to Boston. I find that all are inclined to gel
what they can in a short time, and then re
turn from whence they came. A. D.
The Philadelphia Rioters.
A meeting was recently held in-one of the
riotous districts of Philadelphia, to consider
the best means of mutual protection against
the scoundrels who have for som: time past
infested that city, to the great annoyance and
injury of the peaceable and well disposed, es
pecially of its colored citizens. The Ledger
gives the following account of the immediate
cause of the meeting and of its proceedings.
It is high time that the Philadelphians looked
to this matter. Penn’s Quaker city has be
come a disgrace to the Union. Neither St.
I Louis nor New Orleans can pietend to vie with
j it in rowdyism
“The many daring acts of violence and out
i rage committed for some time past in the vi
cinity of this city, has awakened the attention
of the residents of the outer districts, to a com
bination for their suppression. On Sunday,
t the 21st October last, an aged and respectable
yeoman, William Wikie, residing near Har
rowgate lane, for simply requesting a gang ol
S forty or fifty lawless marauders to withdraw
from his premises, was set upon and shock
ingly beaten, seriously stabbed, and, but for
the prompt use of fire-arms by his two sons,
would no doubt have been killed. This out
rage convened a general meeting of ihe resi
dents of the townships no'rth of the city, on
Wednesday evening, the 24ih ult. at the
Hart Lane School House, Unincorporated
Northern Liberties, when the following pre
amble and resolutions were adopted.
Wheieas, The frequent acis of violence by
bands of lawless marauders, especially on
the Sabbath, calls for prompt and energetic
action to abate this great and growing evil
therefore
Resolved, That we invite the co-operation
of out fellow-citizens in every tow nship, and
the assistance of the different corporations ad
t joining, to carry into effect this object.
Reolved, That the constables of this and
i the adjoining tow nships be requested to sub
mit to the Court the names of forty volunteers
each, to be appointed as deputy constables for
the purpose of maintaining and preserving the
persons and property of peaceful citizens.
Resolved, That these proceedings, togeth
er with the handbills formerly distributed and
1 posted, containing the various acts of Assem
bly with reference to gunners, trespassers,
die be published.”
Jenny Lind.— lt seems that this celebrated
songstress may be expected soon to visit this
country. Barnum has sent over an embassy
to invite her to visit his mansion, and is said to
have received a favorable answer.
English Copyright. —The English Court
of Exchequer baa recently decided that no for
eigner eeo enjoy a copyright forliie works in
'Great Britain,’except through a mutual in
ternational arrangement. Why should there
not be such sn arrangement 1 Writers on
both sides of tbe Atlantic are as much enti
tled to tbe proceeds of their brain labor, as the
carpenter or bricklayer is to those of his hand
labor. American authors must stir m ibis
matter in spite of tbe frowns of certain great
publishing bouses.
GtNtaovs Donatio*.— -The Anti-Slavery
Society of Western New York has given
9 100,00 to Frederick Douglass, to aid in the
publication of The North Sur. The Dona
tion was wisely bestowed. The North Sur
ta doing an important work, and we hope it
may never languish for want of support. A
man like redertek Douglass should not be
hampered by pecuniary cares and anxieties.
Besides writing regularly for hia paper, be is
almost constantly in tbs field as a lectuiei,
aod, judging from the accounts be gives of
bis labors flora time to tune, w« cannot doubt
that in this capacity be is doing tbs cause
good service. —A m/tSlmtxry Bug it.
Mi** Fredenka Bremer, (says the N Y
Express,) has thready become the hooass of
tbe tows, from bet gentleness and great good
i sense, aod is in all respects worthy of the at-
I tsnuoo she is receiving at tbs bands of our
country men. Many of our distinguished la
dies and gentleman called upon her yeagrda v.
at tbe Asior House, and also many frm
abroad Miss B. visited Greenwood yester
day, and will leave for Newburgh to day, a*
tbe goes* of Mr. Downing tbe emmeat Hot
ueuliunst, for a use. She will pees the win
ter in Boston.
More Cniot ta MaHtchoMtU.
A Free Soil Convention, in Suffolk county,
has issued tn Address, urging upon the Free
Soil voters of that county the propriety of
union with the Democrats Thu Address
has unfortunately, a very considerable smat
tering of tbit spirit of compromise by which
anv political fraud, no matter bow iniquitous,
be sanctioned and promoted. TheAd
dtess expresses doubts of the trptdtcncy ®f
such unions, thinks the act to be a moral one,
when s good motive exists “we believe,”
say the Convention, ‘‘that a good and suffi
cient motive exist* in the present case; thet
the odious inequality produced by the present
system of hiking vacancies m our State Sen
ate la too great to be borne mat the present
system ,a a supervision of the doctrine of self
government based on tho same principle on
which the mother country in colonial times
sent over a governor to rule over provinces
which had no voice in his appointment” they
assert such action to be in accordance with
“the principle that every wise and practicable
man is obliged to adopt tn his ordinary affairs,
of making the moet of citcumsiances en
treat “fellow citizens” to ponder well the pre
sent aspect of political affairs and wind up
w ith the following string of resolutions, which
seem to hinge at least as much on the subject
of spoils, as of principle
Resoived, That we adhere to the »epance
organization of the Free Democracy, as the
only one around which the friends of freedom
can rally with the hope of success and that
we will exert our influence to elect the candi
dates whom we have put in nomination.
Resolved, That we adhere to the Buffalo
platform as our national charter acfl party test,
and that we ara opposed to ail unions or com
binations with other parties which shall put in
jeopardy the final triumph of our principles.—
That we consider (he restriction of Slavery to
its present limits, and ns abolition where Con
gress has the power, as the great paramount
and “vital” question of the times. To which
all other considerations of State or National
policy, ail questions of commerce or finance,
must yield when they come in competition.
Resolved, That considering the novel man
ner in which the territory of California has
been temporarily settled, the heterogeneous,
mixed, alien, and migratory character of its
population, and considering that the law* and
constitutions of States ate subject to frequent
changes, that we believe the only adequate se
curity against the introduction of slavery into
New Meixico and Calilornia, to 6e the passage
of an act.of Congress, before the formation of
any of said territories into States, similar in
its character to the Jeffersonian Ordinance of
1787 which shall underlie all State Consti
tutions and State laws, and which shall for
ever take it out of the power of the Stales
which may hereafter bo formed there, ever
I to introduce the institution ot Slavery among
them. Therefore
Resolved, That wo view with great anxiety
and alarm, the virtual abandonment of tho or
dinance of 1787, by the leading presses in the
confidence of t he administration, and the open
assent or the silent acquiescence of the Whig
presses ot the North, all clearly showing a
disposition on the part of the Whigs of the
North, even to recede from the support of
i the Wilmot Proviso, and take their stand up
j on tho “Non-intervention” policy of General
Cass—a policy condemned in the strongest
terms by ttie Whigs of the t ree Slates, and
so odious to the Democrats, that a large por
tion of tiio patty refused to give him their
support.
Resolved, That the permanence and suc
cess ot Republican institutions depends upon
the free and intelligent exorcise of the elective
franchise, uninfluenced by fear or the of
reward. That the principle that, “to the vio
tors belong the spoils of victory,” is most cor
rupting and dangerous in itsinfluence,tending
j to the subversion of free institutions, and has
ever been so declared by the Whig party.—
That it acquires an additional odium when
exercised by those who have denounced and
solemnly pledged themselves to oppose it.
Resolved, Tnat tho free exercise of the
power of removal from office by the piesent
administration, and the bestowal of the same
upon partizans and favorites, is a gross viola
j lion of the pledge of General Taylor, and has
j blasted the hopes of those who looked to him
to correct the abuses of those who had brought
the patronage of the government into conflict
with the fieedotn of electors.
Resolved, That the present system of fil
ling vacancies in our State Senate, whereby
a majority party at times gets full possession
I ot that bianch of the legislature, is unjust and
j uneqiiu) in the highest degree, and not to be
tolerated. And in case it cannot otherwise be
remedied, we approve of such union of parties
as shall remedy this inequality, and give the
majority an opportunity to be heard in that
branch of the legislature.
Resolved, That in the union of parties for
such an object, and especially in support of
candidates who are favorable to our views on
the subject ot Slavery, there is no sacrifice cf
our principles or party organization

The Prospect is Maryland.— The cause
of emancipation is gradually, though surely
progressing in the Slave States The follow
ing paragiaph in a letter written from Balti
more to the Concord (X. H Ind. Democrat,
shows that the emancipationists of Maryland
are looking forward to the day when the ckuae
of freedom shall triumph :n that State. That
day, (says the Demociat,) though seemingly
far distant, is rapidly approaching The
hem ot humanity is throbbing with the love
of liberty, and every pulsation of that great
heart sends the life-blood farther and farther
A majority ot Reformers have been elect
ed, and a great effort will be made to enact a
bill providing for the call o? a Convention to
re-mode! the Constitution of the State The
slaveholders in the eastern aud southern coua
liea have already taken the alarm at the pros
pect of an effort to provide for emancipation.
I can see no prospect of success at present,
but a movement once made will lead to bene
ficial results in a few years. There are those
m Maryland who will never cease until this
is eradicated from the soil, and although the
attainment of the object is far distant tn ap
pearance, there are hearts that never despair
and hope to lire to witness its accomplish
ment
Riot jn Norristowk Ovtraos vpo*
tm* People or Coloe. On Saturday
l a, hl V “»*d.es Of Norrtatown, ear
uiating the “kiliera” of Moya me:.™*, at
tt(k*-d a three stoty house in the east partot
j lhe occupied by unoffending co.ored
people- The door waa beaten in, the win
dowe in the second and third stones were
demolished, sad the blacks were driven from
mie part of the house to the other, and finally
t«om it. As they emerged from the bouse
they were attacked by another portion ol the
and several serious blows with clube
and stone* w*re inflicted. The assailed re
sisted and defended themselves against great
odda, tteiti they wer; relieved by the arrival
the police Several arrests were made on
»tn: ft <><)nd, ar;d up to Monday severs!
persons implicated were still at large This
ts one of the natural iruu* of the outlawry of
i Uist weak and dofeoceioss class, by sute and
church and social usage. il‘he mtserab e
wretches who perpetrated n. »re but the
agents of popular prejudice, and evety man
who strengthens and noanahee that prejudice
Is a guilty partner in the wrong. 
Foreign News of the Week
The Cambria arrived at Boston on Saturday last bring* date's from Liverpool to
October tbe 27ih
>g h>d.—The principal subject of mter-
the philanthropic in Britain, at
..rfjent is, the condition of the Italian and oth
f, Firopeau refugees. They stand nfeatlv
-ffd of the sympathy and aid of the hr nev
,ri. many of them being in neatly the last
of deatitotioo. So much for the effort*
,f republican Frantic to eatabliah m Home
#►ll the Brummagem President «a* pleased
K call an “orderly and constitutionaMibeny.”
This seaaon ha* been unusually dtsaatious
o whaling vo-eh. The John O'Groat's
ivrnol »aya, that intelligence has already
received of the destruction of four—
•tiree English, and one large American ship—
e yfcLellan of New London, crushed to
bv icebergs. So suddenK and in such
-Dense masses did the floating ice bear down
-on them, that the snips h3d r.ot the Blight
e*; caince of escaping ftom it. The oataetro
occurred in Mellville Bay. Davie Straits,
lhe j2ih of J une last. One of the vessel*,
p l,id» l*ne, was literally cut in two, the
u t ihe same tune falling overboard and
e*i ;.ian two hours not a vestige of her
to be seen. The crew succeeded in se
ciritig the boat*, *ome clothes and provision*.
Tre American vessel, though-droadlully shat
:«red. with the aid ot the crews of the other 1
vessel, vvas for a time kept afloat, but on the
ls:h, finding their labors abortive, the pro
vision* were secured, and the crew* took to
their boats. On the 20th of June, the crews
of *1 the ships arrived safely at a place nam
ed Lively, on the Danish coast, 500 miles
trom Me lviile Bay, where they were shown
every hospitality that the limited means of
the natives could afford They afterwards
6 sined 'he Orkney islands in safety. The de
struction of the four ships is computed at a
loss oi A'50,001
The Manchester Guardian contains an ac
count of a second interview between Mr. Had
dock. a friend of Sir John Franklin, and the
Bolton Clairvoyanle. She piotesses to have
had interviews with Sir John Franklin and Sir
James Ross Sir John, she said would be
oui m less than nine months That it was
ten minutes past eleven by Sir John’s time,
and a quarter past ten a good w hile alter by
Sir James Ross’s time. That she went a
food way further than Sir James Ross, where
n was very dark, and the stars went round
and did not twinkle, but she was sure it was
quite ridiculous to attempt to find a road fin
ships over there That Sir John had been a
great way over the country, hut had returned
to hu ships That Sir John Franklin had j
seen the natives, but nut Sir James Ross, and
that there were two ships on their way home,
which would bring good news. The stale- j
merits of the girl have excited great interest
all over the country. It has excited attention
at the Admiralty, and the matter is said to
have been inquired afiei in high quarters

Lola Montes, it seems, has had a quarrel j
with her husband The Barcelona corres
pondent of the Assembler Sationah lias a let- 1
ter, from which it appears that Madame Heald
is at that place, in a very critical position.—
She ct.citesthe sympathies and the interest of j
the Barcelonians, by her Tomantic account of j
her marriage with Mi. Heald. It appears
now that the vouth is tired of his bargain.— j
Says the writer of that letter
“Five days since Mi. Heald called on tlie j
English Consul and said to him, 'I am come
u> ask your gdvice I have some friends here
who recommend me to abandon my wile;
what ought Ito do' iam afraid of being as
sassinated or poisoned. At Perpignan she
slabbed me.’ (He then showed a waistcoat
stained with blood.) The Consul replied, *1
am astonished that, after the attack you speak
of, you had not laid the complaint before ihe
Police a! Perpignan, and that vou have since
lived wuh her heic on such intimate terms.
But if you wish to abandon your wife i have!
no advice to give you.’ He offered, huwev-i
er, to vtser his passport for any direction
which he might think proper to lake. On tlie
same day the parties had the quarrel which 1
mentioned yesterday, but the stab of ihe puig-
nurd appears to have been an invention of the
person who related it. The scene was con
fined to reproaches and insuhs. On the fol
lowing day, the 16th, Mr Heald sent his pass
port to the English Consul, bpggno him to
give him a new one, and at half-past (our fit
had disappeared."
The trial of the Mannings commenced at
London on the 25th. and ended on the 20th,
with a verdict of guilty They are to be ex.
touted in June.
Perhaps the most important jtem of gene
ral intelligence, is the intimation that ihe gov
ernment intend to propose, in the next session
uf Parliament, a scheme for extending the
franchise, so as to include u laige
of the operative claase* who are at present be
yond the pale of the Constitution. The pres
ent «£lb household suffrage is extiemely par
tial and unjust It is a simple representation
of property and influence, instead, as it ought
to be, of men and intelligence. While the
country clodhopper*, who unfortunately know
little, and care less, about anything beyond
:he size of a calf, or the weight of a pig, ate
lepreaented in Parliament, the intelligent
t'tiks in mercantile houses, and salesmen in
stores, are excluded from the suffrage, simply
Uiause they do not occupy a house rented at
£lO ay tar It is high time that this were
.hanged. The proposed measure ot govern
ment seems to look in that direction. Our
tear ia, however, tiiat it will be hampered by
conditions and provisions which will render it
ittle belter than valueless.
The Hcoisrmn nonces the following incon
sistencies in the agitation against Sunday la
bor in the London Post office Reform is
wanted in some placesj
“The chief organ of the movement, ihe
weakest ot the l/uidon morning papers, has j
*lB so nposilors, news-uaiherers, and writers,
*ork og as harden Sunday as on any other'
day and the most respectable of its orators,
ha», oi hie biewety, three hundred /run toil
mg f.Cry and all .Sabbath-day m ihe manu
laciuie of mioxicaimg drink lis tin pusi-of
ticesof most of the towns in which meeting*,
have deeu held to protest against Sunday !a
’>oi in the General Post-Office, the servant* 1
«re (and have been fur many vears) employ- i
tvi ry Sunday, and people call lor th**ir let-1
•vit before and after church-time.”
Ae 4 matter merely affecting health and j
'■stably, altogether mdependant of its reh-i
bearing* we are decidedly of the opm- j
'Vt a iest of one day in seven is not only
but absolutely indispensable for'
j' l -iii«f» tgl than other* We opine, u<
that the labors of biewers might
be !nj, eu#e< j wr jh for one day m the
«Mk
th% »—old cry come* up, I
of eocumbered estates, evictions of tenants,
robberies, murders, blight, 4c. The state ©1
things is avowedly described by Mr. M'Car
thy in his address to the electors of Cork,
wherein he say» that “tbe people, class after
else*, arc all tumbling into the vast crater ol
pauperism.”
The right hou. James Gratuo, it ia
has resolved uj*>n the sale of his Irish proper
ty, with the intention of leaving hia native
country forever, and becoming a settler in
Old trgima, where he has already effected a
purchase of 5,000 acres of land.
The usual weekly meeting of the Repeal
Association was held on Monday Oct. 32nd.
Mr. John O'Connell was chief speaker The
proceedings were quite unimportant. Rent
was jC3», 9s 2d
Francs. —The chief topic of debate in the
Assembly, during the week, was ihe credit?
for the Roman expedition, which, it was
thought would involve a resignation and
change of ministry.
M. de Kisselcff, the Russian Charge d'Af
fairs in Paris, waited on the Minister of For
eign Affairs on the 20th ult. He declared to
M. de Tocqueville that if the French fleet ap
proached the Dardanelles, Russia would con
sider the fact a cause of war. The French
Council of Ministers, on the other hand, has
decided that France will consider as a casus
belli the entry of a Russian army on the
Turkish territory.
Disturbances of a aettous nature took piace
at Rheims on the 21st instant.
It is imported, and generally credited, that
a cons durable movement of foreigners and ul
tra-democrats flora the departments, is taking
place towards Paris, with what object is not
yet clearly ascertained.
The trials at Versailles continue rattier dis
orderly Interruptions, and those too of a
stormy character, are constantly taking place
which go to suspend for a time the dignity
and the gravity of the Court. At one of
these disgraceful scenes, some of the witnes
ses in giving in their evidence having used
opprobrious epithets in application to a por
tion of the prisoners, the latter gave full vent
to their indignation hy the most violent ex
pressions of rage. In one case, the prisoner
Lamaziere called the witness a liar, and was
forthwith condemned by the Court to three
months imprisonment, and a fine of 100 francs.
Rome. Much excitement prevails in the
city. People are now prohibited from sing
ing in the streets, w hich about amounts to a
mural impossibility, where the young are so
much accustomed to join in choruses as thev
parade the streets in the cool of the evening.
Several young men have been airested for
singing the Marseillese hymn. Instead ol
singing, the people now indulge in j rose reci
tations. Placards, with enormous letters, of
“Dia>h to the iufamous priests,” “Death to
the red triumvirate,” cover the walls. Sev
eral attempts on the lives of French officers
have also been made.
Ihe three cardinals, although in the height
of their power, by no means enjoy either
mental or bodily tranquility. The perpetual
apprehension of some sinister occurrence,
makes them adopt many timid precautions.
They are complete prisoners in the Quirinal,
never stirring out except when forced to ffij
so by the necessity of returning some rare
visit of etiquette they never receive any one
excepting they are all three present
That the French will leave Rome soon
seems highly improbable. They are said to
be g* tting up extensive buildings for stables,
kitchens, workshops, 4c. Dr. Millington,
who has been suffering persecution from the
pnests, has made a fruitless appeal to the
cardinals, and has therefore addressed the
British Government to protect him as a Brit
ish subject. A council was held on the 6th
at Poitiu, of which the supposed result has
been to advise the return of the Pope to
Rome.
Austria and Hungary. The Emperor
has granted to the officers of ihe Peteiward
ent garrison, who suriendered uncondition
ally, ihe same privilege which was accorded
lto t ne* utficers of the Comorn garrison. Those
I persons only are excepted against whom
i proceedings are to be adopted fur special nus-
J demeanors. The Count Tejehi ha$ publish
ed a statement in the Paris Journals, respect
,mg the murder of Count Louis Batthiani.
i He speaks of that atrocious event thus
“This condemnation without proofs—this
judgement without a court —this sentence
without a Uw —this execution on the 9th of
I October —this measure, which was taken
now that Hungary is under foot—this mea
sure, which they dared not take when Hun
gary had a sword—this measure, which was
taken after sparing those who prolonged tlieir
residence to the last extremity —how are we
to call It I leave it to the friends of order
i among all parties to find a name for this
measure. I have done my duly. 1 have
done it calmly and deliberately, while my
heart is breaking. 1 had but to analyse a
death-warrant of Batlhyany. 1 need not
speak—he is well known. His name was
great —Ins soul was mighty. He was al
ways noble and generous. His dying hour
1 was sublime. Thou heroic martyr of a great
and beautiful cause, thou gavest thy soul up
to God, but thy memory will be green in our
1 hearts ir will live forever, and die with the
last sigh of the last Magyar.’
According to reports from Pesth, the crown
iol Hungary is now in England, whither it
was sent by Kossuth. On the afternoon of
the 12th ult., a courier arrived at Pesth from
Vienna, with orders to slop the butcheries in
tlut city Paul Nyarz, Perenzi and Stutter,
i who were to have been executed tire day
fallowing, were thereupon put into condemn
ed cells till the Emperor's pleasure would be
made known, it is said that liaynau has
resigned his post, m consequence of the Em
peror having ordered the executions to be
Stopped
Russia and Turkey it «a» reported ra
Pans on ihe 25th ©U that the Fr.-ncfi am
bassador at St. Petersburg had forward'd
despatches to his government, intimating that,
so far from forcing matters to extremities,
Russia expressed itself anx ous to settle the
differences quietly, provided no warlike inler-
I tVrence was threatened on the part of Eng
land The same rumor was prevalent at
j Vienna on the fUt Wat. Tbs following, re*-
pecting the change of creed of Bern, Dem
binski, and others, is interesting
•‘Gen. Bern, as soon as he learned the
determination of the Sultan to resist the de
mands uf Russia aud Austria, and lo refuse
J tire extradu on, declared that h»* country was
i Ins first religion, and as the Sultan had the
same enemies and friends with himself, he
wished to become his subject, and to serve
his flag, and that he would embrace
lelsmittu that be had resolved upon thia
when he left Hungary, and that he bad no
sooner announced bis profession of faith, lest
it might have the appearance of yieldiug to
fear. He added that he did not wish to in
fluence any one to follow hia example.
Kossuth, greatly irritated at Bern, went at
once to the camp of tbe Hungarians, and in
formed them that the Porte resisted the de
mands of Austria and Russia, that Franco
and England appealed decided to aid the Porte,
and implored them not to stain by apostasy
the flag of Christian Hungary, which they
had always served with honor.
Dembinaki pursued a different coarse. He
did not become a Mussulman, but expressly
admitted that the Perte had no hand in tire
abjuration of Bern and his companions, and
he even wrote to the Grand Visier and to the
Seraskier letters of acknow ledgement. Bern
ia now called Murad-Pacha. The refugees,
without distinction, ire treated with great
kindness and humanity.”
There ia no doubt says a letter from
Malta, of the 10th ult., that the English
•quadron has left the Adriatic for the neigh
borhood of the Dardanelles at the request of
Sir Stratford Canning The French fleet,
consisting of 6 vessels of the line, 2 frigates
and steamers, with 8000 men and 600 guns*
is under way for the Dardanelles.
The Proposal for a Colored Newspaper
ia Ohio.
To M R. Ihlany —De at Sir At the time
of penning roy letter to you, on the 15th of
last month, little did I think of being called to
the task of answering yours through the
Press, hut ad our minds are somewhat at va
riance respecting the better course to pursue,
though aiming for one and the same haven, I
hope u'e will not fall out on the way.
Many .portions of your letter, sir, I fully
concur in yet I think that a different view
may he taken of the subject under considera
tion I 3ha 11 now attempt to express mv
humble views, and in doing so, it may cause
other spirits of Ohio lo enter ardently into the
scheme of giving to this State an organ.—
She loudly calls tor one, and one she can have
if our people can be fully awakened to their
best interests.
Granting, sir, all you have said to be cor
rect, respecting our communities, to ensure
success to the ptess, I ask in the name of Him
who sways the destinies of all men, both no
ble and ignoble, if the day has not arrived for
us to rise en masse, and acquaint the Ohioans
in power, that we are a people; in mild terms,
but in terms that cannot be mistaken, that we
are deprived of those God-given rights that
justly belong to the whole race of mankind, j
At this very time I may safely say the
powers of the Si ne are being convulsed in
a civil revolution, having voted this very fall
for a Convention to alter her Constitution.—
Are not these, without suggesting others, suf
ficient reasons for us to establish a press'
which will give us better opportunities as a
people, oppressed and deprived of our rights,
to urge the necessity of being fully and hon
orably repiesented in that body* Or when,:
and at what period, shall we make the effort*
Yet, in contemplating the whole matter, I
deeply feel that there is a certain amount ofj
inertness among our people, that will continue
to exis', unless some w illing-hearted men will
come boldly up to the work and sacrifice some- j
thing in our just and laudable cause and the
same feeling will continue to exist if we do I
as we have done in former days, wail until'
those who oppress us shake the burden from:
our shoulders. But here I mjst say that it'
behoves tho»e w ho are patriotic among Afric’s j
sons in Ohio, to will an organ into existence
an organ of their own. They can have it,!
and why should they have it* Because, asj
you have truthfully said, that a very large;
poition of our inhabitants have come from the;
South, both ignorant, superstitious, 4c.; and,
the establishment of a well conducted organ
for this State will, in its very nature, arouse
the sleeping energies of our people to a high
er sense ot duty. You say, sir, that there are
already, two or more newspapers published
in this country. Of this fact, lam aware.
The Christian Herald of your city. (Pitts--
burgh) which is purely a church organ, and
will not deviate from that course plainly laid
out in its prospectus, promoting the interest of
the Methodist Church, and setting aside the
subject ot human freedom as not worthy to
1 interest the dignitaries of that great and grow
ing body. Tiie North Star, edited by our
far-fauied, world-renowned, and talented
brother, Frederick Douglass; a man who has
felt the sung of the oppressor's cursed lash—
a man who has known what it is to be a slave
from long experience. Him I love, and would
nut be guilty of laying any hindrance in his
j way which would in the least retard ihe ad
j vancement of that cause for w hich he labors—
of all causes the mo9t glorious, that of the
i Slaves. \et, fully acknowledging the capac
ity of the editor of the Star for his duty, I do
not wish here to be taking dictatorial grounds
w hen I give it as my opinion that the Star ia
not effecting that amount of good in and among
Ohioans that we might derive fiom a section
al organ. All and every organ that we have
in this cause, (that is, the cause of the slave
and nominally free.) you will find east of the
mountains, which are conducted by colored
men and admitting the faci that the Star is
now founded upon a basis more firm than ev
er was any other newspaper under the imme
diate control and supervision of colored men,
the establishment of a paper West would not
affect, in the least, as I think, the interest of
the Star. For 1 give it as my opinion, that
every subscriber that now subscribes for the
Star, and pays for it, would subscribe for a
Western paper
Yours fraternally,
W. H. BURNHAM.
Zanesville, Ohio, Oct. 86.
American and British Navigation Laws.
The Secretary ot State, with a view to
put our merchants and shippers abroad in
possession of all the advantages which the
change ra the Biitish Navigation laws offers
them* has addressed communications to our
Minister in China, and other public function
aries in distant countries, slating precisely
ami cleativ wtut effect that change produces,
and to mad from what ports they may now
take cargoes. Tbe construction given to the
navigation laws of the two countries, as they
now .tand, enables any American merchant
to •‘end lus ship and cargo— -oo matter what
ih< cargo may consist of—from any poit of
any country in the world, to any port of any
country under the dominion of her Butanoic
Majesty and also from any such port to any
port ot any other country in the world aud
tiie British merchant baa the same right in
regard to the Unirad Slates, each paying tbe
same rrros of duty, tonnage, Ae., as tbe
other, in the ports of each that ia to say,
both being placed upon precisely the same
footing in eveiy respect But neilhet are to
partake of the coasting trade uf the other
For instance, no BnUih ship can bnng a c«-
go to New Yoik and then take a cargo ra
Boston, nor ran she take a cargo from any
one of otir porta to another; neither can aa
American ship take a cargo from London to
Bristol, or Kingston, Jamaica, to Port Royal;
hot she can from any port in Great Britain
u» any port of any British colony. An Ameri
can me re riant in Canton, therefore, may att*4
hit ship loaded sriih teas, silks, Ac., to any
port ot Gieat Britain, or to any port of aajr
of her colonial possessions, upoo the same
terms that a British merchant can so that tbe
carrying trade between tbe East Indies and
Great Britain will be open to a fair competi
tion between the ships of the two countries.
—Boston Atlas.
The Panama Railroad. A letter from
tbe Panama Railroad Company to the Gov
ernment ai Panama, has just been published,
from which we learn that the road will be
commenced in November next. Vessels
freighted with all necessary materials and la
borers will leave New York about the first of
next month, and tbe Company expect to place
a locomotive on that portion of the road be
tween Chagiea river and tbe bay of Panama
within one year from the date ot the com
mencement of the work.
The Governor of Panama replies ra a very
courteous letter, in which he expresses high
gratification at the prospect of a speedy com
mencement. and assures the company that the
land required shall be immediately placed at
their disposal. If uis public land it is to be
delivered gratuitously if private, the Compa
ny is to pay for it according to its true tralue.
He concludes as follows
If you trust that this Republic will have no
reason to regret its having committed the con
struction of the Inter-Oceanic Railroad to
youiselves, whether in reference to the char-,
acter of the work, or the date of its comple
tion, I also hope, with full confidence, that
you will not regret hating selected the Gra
nadian Isthmus, rather than that of Tehuante
pec or Lake Nicaragua, for the accomplish
ment of a glorious enterprise, urgently de
manded by the commercial interests of both
Continents, and by the civilization of the 19th
century. Vicksburg (Miss.) W/ug.
Receipts
j Tor the North Star, from, the date of lost acknou;-
Ifdgtntnt to .Vcv. 14, 1849.
Isaac Post, don 10,00
Wm R Hallowell. 20,00
Lewis and Sarah Burt is. 3,00
Asa Anthony, 2,00
John E Robinson. ],OO
Wm Macy, I*oo
Richard Bradfield, 50
Cornelia R Cowles, Austinburg, O 1,00
G|rnsoman A. S. Society, 2,00
Ralph Francis, 4,00
Packham Rathbun, Macedon, 1,00
Robert Braithwaite, 1.00
Robert Bunker, 1,00
George S Hedges, Saratoga Springs, 1,00
James W Stewart, Dawkins Mills, O 1,00
G Boyd, 1,00
S H Ainsworth, West Bloomfield, 2,00
John Bell, 2,00
Townsend Coates, Johnson’s Creek, 1,00
James W Stewart, Dawkin’s Mills, 1,00
Geo R Williams, Chillicothe, O 1,00
Isaac Colvin, Honeoye Falls, 1,50
N otices.
Western New York Annnal Anti-Slave*
ry Fair at Rochester.
This fair will be opened the 16th of Janu
ary next, instead of December, as has been
before contemplated and published. The post- 1
ponement will doubtless meet the approval of
all concerned. We shall need more time for
preparation, as the old articles are nearly all
disposed of, and this year we must have an
entire new stock. We hope there are already
many sewing circles formed in different parts,
who are zealously engaged in making up the
great variety of useful and beautiful articles,
that are usually presented at oui fair. Wo
ask every abolitionist, and every friend of the
cause in this State especiallyi as well as
friends in every other State, to feel themselves
bound to be represented, either personally or
by donation, at the Rochester Fair. Let none
feel themselves excused from laboring earnest
ly to make this Anti-Slavery Fair worthy of
the cause.
Some of our warm-hearted European friends,
have already prepared and forwarded a box of
articles lo aid us in this movement. Truly,
their disinteresteduess and devotedness ought
to tinge every slaveholder’s cheek with shame
—stir every northern abettor’s heart with re
morse, and stimulate every abolitionist to
double zeal. The North Star we intend to
sustain, and wc ask the zealous co-operation
of our friends in so doing. Lectures are much
needed, and in this section of the State there
is a wide field for profitable exertion.
Seed diligently sown will yield a hundred
or a thousand fold, and the bread ot troth cast
upon the waters will return after many days.
The personal attendance of anti-slavery f riends
at the fair is earnestly solicited, and confident
ly anticipated, and we trust that we shall be
able to make it more worthy the patronage of
the community than any that has preceded it.
On behalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST.
Appeal of tbe Philadelphia Association
The “Women's Association of Philadel
phia” appeal to a benevolent public, and to
the friends of ihe Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Pair, tbe ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star.”
To those who are familiar with the pages of
this paper it is unnecesary to speak of ita
merii. To those who have not seen it we
may say, that we regard it as one of the very
best anti-slavery instrumentalities now in the
field.
We are the more interested in it. because
the editor is one of our oppressed race, and
admirablv qualified by his talents and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a paper devoted to our eleva
tion. We believe and trust that our friends
i will give us tbeir liberal aid.
To our own people we look earnestly ank
hopefully. Sisters, Brothers, aball we lood
ira vain* The iron has entered into your souls.
1 Ye go heavily, bowed down to the very dust,
dispirited, crushed by the weight of oppres-1
sion. Ye hear tbe taunts of tbe enemy,
“They are so ignorant and unrefined* They
are jealous of one other! Yes. they unite
but it u only to put down one who is more
intellectual than the mass Prove by the
unerring langutge of conduct that these as
sertions so often throwo is oox faces are ma
lictous slanders. Sustain F Dougtan, be
cause his talents aud correct principles de
mand your respect -:>d confidence. Sustain
him because it is right to doao, and because
of the tweet peace the performance of so wor
thy an action will assuredly brio* it into your
bosoms. _
The Fau will be held on Obnstmss week.
Donations for it may be tent lo
HARRIET SMITH, 319 Lombard-aueet,
RACHEL LLOYD, MB Prae-eaeet,
AMY M. CASSEY, 113 Lombard-street,
Or to any member of tbe Association.
Eliz abets Arts, Lydia Ass Be mu.,
Mary Barrott, Hetty Beat,
Louisa Bristol, Hclen Jobnson,
Hester Bustill, Eliza Jones.
Charlotte Mills.
SARAH M. DOUGLASS, Car. Sec’y.
No 54 Mull berry at.
Philadelphia, 6th mo., 25, 1949.
Fioi'tii ciiaom cmiut. —Qyi>iw{nf
Dr. J. B. B— tk merit of Widtf'i B»l
-eem of WiUCkm- —tt* ktTr hm Mated,
nmqvoKi/tk beaiCti nmted frem tbia med*
dm, ma M am teattannay in taw mf tu rdrawdi
eery haalia# properties. We take pw pkeemme
in statist. 'bat we bare frequently aaed it oareelf
nad administered it to others during the put rear,
in run «f obstinate roughs, colds, soreness of the
chn*, kc., and always with the moat happy rereh#.
We therefore cbrerfuH rwnund to ah aMksnd
with the above diseases. to TRY the Bakun of
WiU Chert;.
Marietta, Georgia, Feb. 17, 188.
The New York Evening Mirror wn —“Wi
tar's Hainan in ntiM working wooden rn teriog the
most desperate paheooary due# res. We have not
only witnessed its effects, bwt hare sees a great
■aar certificates, which ptnee (be (Aon ot this
•■valuable medicine berond aU quest too. It was a
eastern among the early settlers of New England
to driak freely of Wild Cherry tea ia cases of Cobb j
and fevers, The tea waa made by steeping the
tangs and bark of the Wild Cherry tree, nod driak
freely morning and eveniag. Tha old Paritan Fa*
thers used to regard it a* "the auTereigaeat thing
on earth’* for all aorta, of complaints and there
can be nodoafat bat the Balsam prepared by Dr.
Waster is one of the vary best articles for Couaamp
tioo that das yet been discovered."
Always signed I. BUTTS oo the wrapper
For sale oy Post k Willis; also by Wa.
Piths.
nra large deep olcers.— Dr. W. B.
Sloan—Dear Sir: In my opinion, the greatest cures
effected are those that have longest resisted the
skill of the medical Facaky- Admitting that to he
a feet, I have a case in point, to wit: Mr, Jams*
Hanford, of Sheboygan FalU, eras crippled two
years with .fire large deep ulcers, just above the an*
tie. The leg was so ranch swollen he could not get
ou a boot. Nearly all the most popular Phytiaant
in various places, nave treated his case without any
beneficial effect.
Last August, Mr. Hanford solicited my advice.
I succeeded in redacting the swelling sod healed
two of the sores. The other three I labored at till
the first of February, without much if any benefit,
when I gave him a box of Sloap’s Ointment,
and in tbre- weeks lie was well
Respectfully yours,
C. B. OSTRaNDER, M. D.
Sheboygan, Wi#., March 2, 1848.
gee Agents’ names at the bead of Sloan’s
Column. For further particulars and testimonials,
get pamphlets of agents.
Selections.
THF FIRST AND LAST DINNER.
Twelve friend*, much about tht
tame age. and fixed, by their pursuits
their family connection*, and local in
terests, as permanent inhabitant* of tht
metropolis, agreed one day when thej
were drinking their wine at the Stai
and Garter, at Richmond, to insiitutt
an annual dinner atnoog themselves
under the following regulations;—Tha
they should dine alternately at eacl
other’* houses on the first and last daj
of the year that the first bottle o
wine uncorked at tbe first dinaershouk
be recorked and put away, to be dranl
by him who should be tbe last of theii
number; that they never should admi
a new member; that when one diet
eleven were to meet, and so on; ant
that when only one remained, he should
on these two days, dine by himself, anc
sit the usual hours at his solitary table;
but the first time he so dined alone, leal
it should he the only one, he should th#r
uncork the first bottle, and, in tbe firsi
glass, drink to the memory of all whe
were gone
There was something original and
whimsical in the idea, and it was eager
ly embraced. They were all iu their
prime of life, closely attached by re
ciprocal friendship, fond of social en
joyments, and looked forward to theii
future meetings with unalloyed feeling;
of pleasure. The only thought indeed
that could have darkened those antici
pations, was one not likely to intrude
itself at that moment, viz: that of the
hapless wight who was destined to un
cork the first bottle and drink the last
glass at his lonely repast.
It was high summer when this frolic
compact was entered into; and as theii
pleasure yacht skimmed along the
dark bosom of the Thames, on their re
turn to London, they Talked of nothing
but their first and last fea9 f s of ensuing
years. Their imagination ran riot with
a thousand gay predictions of festive
merriment. They wantoned in con
jectures of what changes time would
create.
“As for you, George,” exclaimed
one of the twelve, addressing his bro
ther-in-law, “I expect I shall see you
as dry, withered and broken as an old
eel skin, the mere outside of a man!”
and he accompanied the words with a
heavy slap on the shoulder.
George Fortesque was leaning care
lessly over the side of the yacht, laugh
ing the loudest of any at the conversa
tion which had been carried on.—The
sudden manual salutation of his bro
ther-in-law threw him off his balance,
and in a moment lie was over-board.
They heard the heavy splash of his
fall; before they coula be said to have
seen him go. The yacht was proceed
ing swiftly along, but was instantly
stopped.
Tne utmost consternation now pre
vailed. It was nearly dark, but Fortes
que was known to be an excellent
swimmer, and startling as the accident
wa9they felt certain he would regain
the vessel. They could not see him.
They listened in fear. An answer
was returned, but in a faint, gurgling
voice; and the exclamation “Oil God!”
struck upon their ears. In an instant
two or three, who were expert swim
mers, plunged into the water and swam
towards the sj.ot whence the exclama
tion had proceeded. One of them was
within an arm’s length of Fortesque;
he saw him; but before he could be
reached, he went down and his distrac
ted friend beheld the eddying circles oi
the wave just over tiie spot where he
nad sunk. He dived after him and
touched the bottom; but the tide must
have drifted the body onward, for it
could not be found!
They proceeded to one of the near
est stations where drags were kept,
and having procured the necessary
apparatus, repaired to the fatal spot. Af
ter the lapse of above an hour they
succeeded in raising the lifeless body
of their lost friend. AH the usual
remedies were employed for restoring
suspended animation, but in vain; they
now pursued the remainder of their
course towards London in mournful
silence, with the corpse ofhim liwo had
commenced the day of pleasure with
them in the fulness of health, of spirits,
and of lile! And in their severe grief
they could not but reflect how soon one
of the joyous twelve had slipped out of
this little festive circle.
The months rolled on, and cold De
cember came withal! its cheering round
of kindly greetings and merry hospi
talities, and with it came a softened re
collection of the fate of poor Fortesque;
eleven of the twelve assembled on the
last day of the year, and it was impos
sible not to feel their loss as they sat
down to dinner. The very irregularity
of the table—five on the one side and
»i\ on the other-—forced the melancholy
event upon their rememberance.
A decorous sigh or two, a low. be
coming ejaculation, and an instructive
observation upon the uncertainty of
life, made up tne sum of tender posth
umous, “offerings to the name of poor
George Fortascue,” as they proceeded
to discharge the more important duties
for which they had met. B> the time
the third glass of champaigne had gone
round; iu addition to the potation of
fine old hock, and “capital madeira,”
they had ceased to discover anything
so very pathetic in the inequality of the
two sides of the table, or t»o very mel
ancholy in their crippled number of
eleven.
Several years had elapsed: our
eleven friends kept up their double an
niversaries as they might aptly enough
be called, with scarcely any percepti
ble change. But alas'there came one
dinner at last, which was darkened by
1 a calamity they never expected to wit
ness; for on that day their friend, com
panion,—brother, almost—was banged!
Yes, Stephen Rowland, the wit, the
Oracle, the life of their circle, had, on
the morning of that day, forfeited his
i life upon the public scaffold, for having
made a single stroke of his pen in a
wrong place. In other words, bill of
exchange which passed into his hands
for 7001 passed out of his bands for
1,700/
It would be injustice to the ten to say
that even wine, fiiendsbip and a merry
season, could quit* dispel tbe gloom
which pervadad this dinner, it was
agreed beforehand that they should not
allude to tht distressing and meiaa-
eleven.
choir theme; and having thus inter
dicted the ottly thing* which really oc
cupied all their thought*, the natural
consequence waa, that silent contem
fdation took the place of dismal discour
se*; and they separated long before
midnight.
Some fifteen years had now glided
away since the fate of Rowland, and
the ten remained; but the stealing hand
of time had written sundry change* in
most legible characters. Raven locki
had begrtuied; some of their heads had
not so many locks altogether as may
be reckoned in a walk of half a mile
along the Regent’s canal: one was actu
ally covered with a brown wig; tbs
crow's feet were risible in the comer of
the eye; conversation grew lest boister
ous, and it turned chiefly on politics
and the state of the funds, or the ealut
of landed property; apologies were
made for coming in thick shoes and
warm stockings; the doors and windows
were most carefully provided with lial
sod sand bags; the fire was more in
request; and a quiet game of whiat fil
led up the hours that were wont to be
devoted to drinking, singing and riotous
merriment. Three rubbers, a cup ol
C >ffee, and at home by 11 o’clock, was
the u-ual cry, when the fifth or sixth
glass had gone round after the removal
of the cloth. At parting, too, there
was a long ceremony in the hall, but
toning great coats, tying on woolen
comforters, fixing silk hankerchiefs
over the mouth and up to the ears, and
grasping sturdy canes to support un
steady feet.
Their fiftieth anniversary came, and
death had indeed been busy. Four
little old men of withered appearance
and decrepit walk, with cracked voices,
and dim, rayle*9 eyes, sat down by the
mercy of Heaven, [as they themselves
tremulously declared,] to ciebrate foi
the fiftieth time the first day of the
year; to Observe the frolic compact
which, half a century ago they had en
tered into at the Star and Garter at
Richmond. Eight were in their graves.
The four that remained stood upon its
confines. Yet they chirped cheerfully
over their glass though they could
scarcely carry it to their lips, if more
than half full, and cracked their jokes,
though they articulated their word*
with difficulty, and heard each othei
with still greater difficulty. They
mumbled, they chattered, they laughed,
if a sort of strange wheezing might bt
called a laugh; and when the wine seni
their icy blood in warmer pulses tbougL
their veins, they talked oi the past as il
were but yesterday that had slipped b)
them—and of the future as if it were
busy century that lay before them.
They were just the number for c
quiet rubber of whist; and for three
successive years they sat down to one
The fourth came, and then their rubbei
was played with an open dummy; c
fifth, and whist wa9 no longer practi
cable; two could play at ct ibbage, an<i
cribbage was the. game. But it was
little more than mockery of play. Theii
palsied hands could hardly hold, or theii
faded sight distinguish the cards, while
their torpid faculties made them doze
between each deal.
At length came the last dinner, and
the survivor of the twelve, upon whose
head four score and ten years had
showed their snow, ate his solitary
meal. It so chanced that it was in hia
house and at his tabic they had cele
brated their first. In his cellar, too,
had remained for forty-eight years the
bottle they had uncorked, recorked,
and which he was that day to uncork
again. It stood beside him; with a
feeble and reluctant grasp he took the
frail memorial of a youthful vow, and
for a moment memory was faithful to
her office. She threw open her long
vista of buried years, and his heart
travelled through them all. Their lusty
and blithsome spring—their bright and
fervid summer—the ripe and temperate
autumn —their chill but not too frozen
winter. He saw, as in a mirror, how
one by one the laughing companions of
the merry hour at Richmond had drop
ped into eternity.
He felt aS! the loneliness of his con
dition, (lor he had eschewed marriage,)
and a* he drained a glass which he
filhd “to the memory of these who had
gone,” the tears slowly trickled down
the deep furrows of his aged face.
He had thus fulfilled one part of bis
vow, and he prepared himself to dis
charge the other by sitting the usual
number of hours at his desolate table.
—With heavy heart he resigned him
self to the gloom of his own thoughts;
lethargic sleep stole over him; his head
fell upon his bosom; confused images
crowded into his mind; he babbled by
himself—w as silent—and when his ser
vant entered the room he found his
master stretched upon the carpet at the
foot of the easy chair, out of which he
had slipped in an apoplectic fit. He
never spoke again nor opened his eyes,
though the vital spark was not extinct
till the following day. And this was
the last dinner.
THE LATE THOMAS HOOD.
Hood was a victim to the “literary
ailment.” For many years towards
the close of his life, he was laboring
under disease habitually ill—dying
slowly; and yet he wrote on. In one ol
his la»t publications to which he gave
his name as editor, Hood’s Magazine,”
he thus humorously pointed out the
pains of the literary life, in so imagina
ry letter from “A subscriber;”
“Sib, By your not coming out on
the Furst, I concluded you are lade up,
being notorus for enjoy in bad health!
Pulhnary, of course, like my poor Rob
ert, for I ve had a literary branch in
my own family, a periodical one like
yourself, only every Sunday, instead of
once a month; and a* such, well known
what it was to be writ long-winded ar
ticles with Weekly lungs. Poor fellow I
as I often said, so much bead-work, and
•otbing bnt head-work, will make a
cherebbim of you, au d so it did. Noth
ing but write, write, write, and read
read; and as our Locter says, it’s as
bsd to study till tU is bruua, as to
dn*»k till all is blew. Mix your cullers
And werry good advice it is. when it
can be follered, whitch is not always
the case; for if necessity has do Lai,
it has a good deal of Litteratnra, aad
Authors must rite what they must.
“As po* r Robert used te say about
seddentory baboo, *ts very well, says
he, to toll me about, like Mr WooX
i f
worth’s single man as he grew double,
slicking to my chair; but if there’s no
sitting, says he, there’ll be no hatching:
and if I do brood too much at my desk,
its because there's a brood expected
from me once a week. Oh! its very
well, says he, to cry, up with yon, and
fetch a walk, and take s look at the
daisies, when you’re sold your mind to
jtfiffStofilia, and there’s a devil wait
ing for your last proofs, as be did for
tor. Forsters. I know its killin me,
Kays he, but if I die of over-work, Us in
Shs way of my vocation. Poor boy! I
■id all I could to nurridge him. Mock
Burkey soop and strong slogs, and
Vormy Jelly, and island moss; but he
■ould’nteat. And no wonder; for men-
Iti labor as the docter said, wears out
Be stummack aa well as the branes;
Kd so he'd been spinning out his in
flde, like a spider. And a spider he.
Pwd look at last, sure enough; one of
ist sort with long spindle legs, and
only a dot of a body in the middle.
“Anauther bad thing ia sitting up all
nite, as my sun did, but it’s all again
nature. Not but what sum must, and
partickty the writers of politicks for the
papers; but they ruin the constitushun.
And besides, even poetry is apt to get
prosy, after twelve or one; and some
late authors read very sleepy. But as
poor Robert said, what is one to do,
when no day is long enuff for one’s
work, nor no mounth either. And, to
be sure, April, June, and September
are all short mounths, Ebber-very.
However one grate thing is, relaxing,
if you can, as the Docter used to say,
what made Jack a dull boy? why, be
ing always in the work-house, and nev
er at the play-house. So, get out of
your gownd and slippers says he, and
put on your best things and unbend
yourself like a beau. If you’ve been
at your poetic flights, go and look a;
the Terns Tunnel; and if you’re tired
of being witty go and spend an hour
with the wax work. The mind requires
a change as well as the merchants,
“So take my advice, sir—a mother’s
advice—and relax a little. You want
brassing, a change of hair, and more
stummack. And you ought to ware
flannel, and take tonicks. Do you ever
drink Basses pail? It’s as good as
cammotniie tea. But above all, there’s
one thing I recommend to you, steal
wine; it’s been a saving to some in
valids.
“Hoping you will excuse this liberty
from a stranger, but a well-meaning
one, I am, sir,
A Subscriber.”
Thus could Hood piay with a subject
full of painful import, and inculcate
severe truths, in quaint and humorous
guise. He made the eye to dance with
laughter, at the same time he touched
the heart to its depths. It was Comus
teaching sympathy and human kind
ness. The laugh passed away, but the
stern truth remained. —Etiza Cook's
Journal.
SOMETHING FOR FARMERS.
Here is an extract of a letter written
by Horace of the N. Y
Tribune, while attending the Stale
Agricultural fair at Syracuse:
i “There cannot be less than two or
three hundred different kinds of Agri
cultural implements on exhibition here
—Horse Hakes, Cultivators, Straw
Cutters, Sub Soil, and all other Plows,
new Bee-Hives, Water-Wheels. Horse
power Saws, &.c. &c. I consider this
altogether the most important feature
of the Fair. A great Ox may be reared
by a greater tool, but no man who
ever worked a year at farming can ever
spend a day among these implements
and inventions without being stimulated
to think. The great end of all such
exhibitions is an improvement of the
breed of Farmers—of Men. Now the
man who has been skimming over a
hundred acres of land for the last
twenty or thirty years, plowing six in
ches deep, manuring with his good
wishes, and growing fifteen or twenty
bushels of corn to the acre, cannot
spend a day in one of these Fair en
closures, without being startled and
shamed. These Sub-Soil plows, one
of which, properly used, would double
his nsual product of Corn and Vegeta
bles, and in dry seasons treble it; these
Straw Cutters, with one of which his
scanty crop of Hay might have been
made, with the aid of straw, stalks,
&c., to winter his stock bonntilully;
these Cultivators, Seed Planters.
Horse Rakes, and other labor-saving
implements must set him thinking.
What sort of crops do those farmer
obtain who use such implements> Who
make the most by farming—the fifteen
or fifty bushel corn-growers. Wimt
sort of farming leaves land in condition
to sell advantageously These ques
tions arise spontaneously in the simplest
minds, and they will be answered. I
don’t believe a farmer can attend three
successive Fairs, keeping his head un
clouded by liquor, and not resolve to
farm better through all his Jill* after
wards.
No other business could bear to be
m ln f£ c d wretchedly as Farming
still is. Qoly think of civilized men
killing their bees to get the honey in
this nineteenth century after Christ.
Killing a cow to obtain her milk would
be on the same principle. Yet to this
day, half the bee-men smother their
bees to get the honey, although the land
is full of simple and cheap hives on
humanerand more economical princi
ple. How long shall the stupid barbar
ism of smothering bees continuer”
A horrible scene occurred at the
burning of the jail of Jackson county,
Mississippi, on the night of the 30tb
met. Before the fire was discovered,
it had ao extended aa to render it ict
poeaibie to eave a runaway slave who
was confined in one of the cell*. Effort*
were made to break the iron bars of the
window, but they proved ineffectual,
aod the poor fellow perished in the
flames, uttering the most piercing cries.
A Retort—At a church where
Umiw we« a call for a minuter, two can
didates appeared, whose names were
Adam and Low. The latter preached
in the forenoon an elegant discourse
I *Ada«, where art thou?’
in tan afternoon Adam preached
tb wordo, *Lo, here am I.*
No man haas a right to do as he pleases except when he pleases to do right.
