availability —the downward
course.
years ago, when the proposal was
first made to the abolitionists to organ
ize themselves into a distinct political
party, we were warned by many a faith-
m watchman for truth, of the danger ofj
ireb a measure—begun, as it must be,
w conceding strict principle to seeming
expediency—of the great liability, if
not the suro necessity, of still further
compromises and coalitions, to the sa
crifice of our integrity. past history
gave illustrations to enforce the argu
ment, but in spite of these our political
friends thought they could venture on
this path of expediency” with safety.
though they saw that others had been
wrecked in that course, with a common
and delusive confidence that their high
er devotion to principle would keep
them secure from evil, they pressed on
the same way which had led so
many before to abandon principle for
power.
the years which have passed, have
been swift witnesses of the truth of
those timely warnings and cautions.
they have confirmed our conviction,
whatever may be the nature of political
action itself, that under our constitution,
any political action must be “conceived
in sin and begotten in iniquity”—that it
must have a fatal tendency to compro
mise. it begins by preferring availa
bility to right, and can succeed in get
ting power only pursuing the same
downward course. a brief review of
one chapter of anti-slavery history will
illustrate it.
in its commencement, the liberty
party professed to be thoitughly anti
slaver) —to aim at nothing short of the
entire ah dition of slavery throughout
the country. immediate emancipation
was a leading article of its creed. its
organs declared that they could consist
ently support no man for office who
would not re present their anti-slavery
principles. they generally denounced
the pro-slavery policy of the govern
ment; and denied all obligations to re
gard the compromises by which the
north were pledged to uphold slavery.
to save their consistency, most ot
them, in some way, maintained an anti
slavery construction of the constitution,
and thus, by bad logic, tried to keep
good consciences. they professed to:
glory in the name of abolitionists, odi
ous as it was then. the mass of its
members were no doubt sincere, how-,
ever inconsistent in their position.
.with these feelings, and to promote
these aims, they nominated mr. birney,
who was distinctively committed before j
the country as an abolitionist. at that
time, we believe that the honest masses
of the party would have been shocked
at the thought that they could ever
take the position they now hold; but
being defeated in their attempt to hold j
up the principles of abolitionism, they
yielded to the seductive plea of availa
bility, and joining with the independent
democrats, whj chose mr. hale as
their presidential candidate. bold and
manly as bis course had been as a
member of congress, they knew he
was not committed to any peculiar anti
slavery principle; they had no evidence
that he would recommend and sustain
the measures they had avowed; hi*{
opinions of the compromises of the*
constitution were at variance with their i
own. but be was near enough to them i
to content to be their candidate,and the
influence of hia name was a prize too
rich to b# refused; this cnaeeasion to
availability startled aod alienated a few
ef the more rigid of their members, but l
the north star.
tbe great body, were eleted at it ae i
grand stroke of policy.
their next step of concession, as u
well known, was a coalition with th<
barnburners in the support of mr. van
buren, who had gained a most unenvia
ble notoriety by his base bowing ol
the knee to the dark spirit of slavery,* 1
and who, instead of showing any sin
cere repentance of his past pro-slaver}
action, openly justified it; end had just
said of that action in tis letter to the
utica convention:
the extent to which i have sus
tained it, (slavery) in the various sta
tions i have occupied, is known to the
country. i was at that time well aware
that i went further in this respect than
many of my best friends could approve.
but deeply impressed by the conviction
that slavery was the only subject which
could endanger our blessed union, i
was determined that no effort on my
part, within the pale of the constitu
tion, should be wanting to sustain its
compromises as they were understood,
and it is now a source of consolation
to ine that i pursued the course i then
adopted.”
it is true, he frankly withdrew hi*
pledge to veto an act abolishing slavery
in tt.e district of columbia, and com
mitted himself against the extension of
slavery into new territory; but he still
maintained abolition iu the district to
be unwise, and must of course discoun
tenance the passage of such a law; he
counselled a considerate forbearance
toward slavery where it now exists,”
and carefully assured the south that he
should fully sustain the compromises of
the constitution.
having chosen mr. van buren as
their candidate, and placed him before
the country as the great representative
of their principles, they were under a
temptation too strong for many of them
to resist, not only to defend his present
position, but to justify or extenuate hi*
past course. all the past political
life of “the northern man with south
ern principles,” once so odious to the
friends of freedom for its servile cring
ing to the slave power, by the wondrous
this nomination, becomes
transmured into a cause eminently pa
triotic and just; or if any faults are vis
ible in it, they incline to virtue’s
side”—they are the spots on the sun’s
disc, and which must be hunted for to
be found, and then are not worth any
thing. the public has greatly misun
derstood his policy towards slavery; his
vote for the gag-law, suppressing the
circulation of anti-slavery publications
by mail, his action towards the ainistad
africans, his policy toward cuba, bis
gratuitous veto pledge, and ail his other
pro-slavery acts, so often denounced by
abolitionists, are excused, and almost
or entirely justified. lt is melancholy
to see this apology for wrong, by men
who once would have thrust their.right
hand into the fire before they would
have written it.
such a course must be demoralizing,
not only to the men who take it, but to
the community at large. we give mr.
van buren full credit for his course
against texas annexation, and the ex
tension of slavery, and for having
broken from his old party, and taken a
bold slaud against the arrogant en
croachments of the slave power, and
we would gladly overlook the sins of
his past political life if we had any
proof of his penitence for them; bqt we
cannot consent for his sake to see a
pro-slavery servility exalted into virtue
and patriotism.
in this connection we may mention
that the national era makes a labored
argument and appeal to the whigs of
maine, new hampshire and ohio, and
the democrats of vermont, to induce
them to go for van buren as their only
hope of defeating cass in the three
former states, and taylor in the last.
the republic makes a similar appeal to
the ohio whigs. now, suppose the
politicians to whom this proposal is
made shall show auy disposition to ac
cept it, provided the van buren men
will all »w them a sufficient considera
tion, may we not look upon another
compromise and coalition! the temp
tation will be too strong, we fear, for
political virtue, though the free soil
men probably as little dream now, that
they could sacrifice their present prin-;
ciples for such a union, as they once
dreamed, as liberty party men they i
could vote for van buren or any other!
person opposed to the immediate eraan- j
cipation in the district of columbia, j
we shall watch the future course of
this party with interest, while we must,
in fidelity to our cause and principles,
counsel all abolitionists to stand aloof!
from it, and all other politiral parties; j
and apply themselves, with unfaltering
zeal, to their great moral enginery lor
the promotion of immediate emancipa
tion throughout the nation and the
world. let us cling to the right, and
and we are safe, and must succeed.
the first step of compromise for avail
ability opens the way to unknown dan
gers and probable defeat.
the happiest relation be.
itween labor and c a pit ax.
somebody has sent us the following
article, stating that the extract it to be
found in gen. butler’s speech on the
jack«on fine. in the heading of the
article it it said to have been delivered
in the house of representatives, jan.
11, 1813. whether the extract it cor
rect or not, we have not the leisure to
examine, but the date is wrong, for the
fine bad not been inflicted upon the*
general in 1813. it is probable that
1813 should have been printed 1843.
the person who sent us the extract
demands its publication on tbe ground
of fatrneea, nnfl in all fairness wa
giva it:
tbs following it a ttrbahm extinct
from speech made by mr. butler, of
right is or no sex-troth is op no color-ood is the paths* of us all, and all we are brethren
1 1 kentucky, now gen. butler, the toco*
foco candidate for tbe vice-presidency,
i in the house of representatives, jen.
11, 1813:
what i mean, then, in connection
with what i have just said, is, that the
predominance of slave over white pop
ulation was such, and such its charac
ter, as to more than neutralize any aid
that could be fairly expected from the
j white population, bad every man abl
to bear arms been both a patriot aod a
soldier. what i hear said of slavery
in louisiana, i by no means apply to
slavery in general. on the contrary, i
would much sooner trust tbe slaves of
my own, and of several other states, to
defend this nation in her darkest hour
of need, than
of are
uniting themselves with foreign socie
j ties, whose reel purpose is the destroc
tion of this union, under the specious
pretence of bettering a class, who, in
all the essentials of ease, comfort and
i happiness, are infinitely better off than
most of themselves.”
the sentiments here attributed to
gen. butler are neither new nor pe
i culiar. whoever has given ordinary
attention to the opinions of the slave
ocracy, is well aware that they regard
human slavery as the corner-stone of
republicanism, and the only proper re*
lation between labor and capital, with
out any regard to the color or caste of
tbe laborer. no longer ago than may
last, mr. dajris, of miss., said, in the
debate upon '|mr. bill for the
suppression of mobs in the district,
i have no fear of insurrection, any
more than of my cattle. ido not dread
such incendiaries. our slaves are
happy and contented. they sustain the
happiest relation that bor lacan sustain
to capital!”
tbe sieve system of the south is es
sentially the feudal system of the middle
i ages continued; and the serfdom of the
producing classes, without regard to
color or kindred, is its very heart and
soul. the southern aristocrat may
s talk of democracy, but he acknowl
edges no difference, iu fact, between
i the chattel slave of tbe south and the
wages slave of the north, nor can his
judgment be fairly impeached, while
the one does hi# work for victuals and
clothes, and the other fights his battles
at the same rate, and both alike submit
to his usurped dominion over them.—
when a man, either by force or by
choice, becomes the tool of a tyrant, he
must take the contempt which belongs
to his condition. it not the declara
tion of independence that can emanci
pate the toilers, while they are happy
and contented” in their bondage. ig
norance and disregard of principle and
slavish submission in the white work
ing man to the class of masters, re
ceives its just recompense in the inso
lence of such men as calhoun, butler,
and davis. the laboring man who
gives his suffrage to the man who op*
presses and despises him, ought to do so
with enthusiasm, and go it with a rush,
for if he stops long enough and keeps
cool enough to think, he will make the
unpleasant discovery that he is both a
fool and a slave. “hurrah for old
zack!” hurrah for cass and but
ler!” give them a little more grape!
you have licked each other many a
time, and you don’t intend to do noth
in’ else.”— phila. rep.
louisiana slave laws.
the national era, in illus‘rating the
general law of slavery in lojistana,
makes copious reference to the enact-
ments of her statute law, and to the
decisions of her courts. a few speci-i
mens, selected from among the more'
striking, will interest, at the same time
that their inhumanity and atrocity will
shock the reader;
where a slave became intoxicated,
and, going presently into a boat, fell
overboard and was drowned, the person
who sold him the liquor on which be got j
drunk was condemned to pay the owner,
the price; and it was held that the'
owner need not prove that the defend
ant knew the negro was a slave, and
that the presumption is that the black
man is a slave.—h mirt. rep., 10.
in a suit for freedom by a oerson of
color, held as a slave in good faith, and
under .a just title, proot that he bad
served as a seamen itt a ship of war of
the united states for several years,
that he had always passed tor a free
person, and that none othar are ever
received on such vessels, will not be
sufficient; he must establish his free
dom by positive proof.—l rob. rep.,
172.
where a slave, ordered to be eman
cipated by will, sues to establish her
right to freedom, she must allege and
prove that she is thirty years of age, or
a native of the state, and that she has
behaved well during the four preceding
years.-—3 rob. rep., 481.
though partial payments have been
made to the master by a slave, for -the
purpose of purchasing his freedom, the
latter remains the property of the mas
ter, who will continue entitled to all
his services, sod tbs purchaser of such
a slave will stand in the shoes of the
vender, till such balance is paid. by
the court. —a slave cannot become
partially free; nor can he, till legally
aud absolutely emancipated, own any
property without the consent of bis mas
ter—-10 rob. rep., 450.
among the decisions of the louisiana
courts relating to emancipation, we se
lect the following:
1. under the spanish law, the eman
cipation sf a slave might he made by
parol, in tbs presence of five wttneasee,
hut not lass than that number.—4 mart.
re 9.998; smmi. rep., 14r
the roman law. ff. 40, which de
clares that, although the slave do ant
pay the whole pries ef his freedom, yet
he is anoded therein, if he nftsmede
rochester, n. y., friday, december i, ib4&
®ake up the deficiency b/ bis labor,
applies to only such as am made free
imbmter, on condition of payiag a fur
ther sum in futmro, not to tboee whom
the master promises to free when such,
farther sum shall be paid. mart.
rtp. 496.
_ when will the system that exists by
virtue of more than barbarian law,
cease to be throughout a republic
vaunted as christian and vaunted as
free? who does not desire that tbe
dark shadow of such statutes may be
lessened, rather than extended? let
them, we say, never pass the boundary
of the rio grande, and, fast as may be,
let them be blotted from the name aod
memory of our entire country.—banian
watchman.
from urn luodeo tian
hypocritical sympathy—
atrocious practice
political slavery is an abomination in
the eyes of our friends on the other side
of the atlantic—social'slavery an un
objectionable condition of humanity.
we have received a.file of new york
papers, and there is much amusement,
if but little information, to be extracted
from the anomalous jumble of ideas in
i which the citizens of the united satei
are involved by the actual situation ol
american and european affairs. the
figure of a spare, yellow, sinewy man,
holding.in one hand a red banner, in
scribed with the words, “death tc
tyiants,” and in the other, a cat o’*
nine-tails, would afford a not inanp
posite image of the present condition ol
the american mind as reflected in the
press. for every invective hurled
against the “despots” of the old
wond, there will be found, as a count
erpart, some unfeeling joke against the
pretentions of the coloured population
of the states to raise themselves to
civil and social liberty. we have the
quasi whig candidature of old zachary
taylor, and the free soil candidature
of mr. van buren—we have abolition
ism in white and black slices,” ac
cording to the complexion of the
assailants of the odious principle—we
have the irish association publishing a
manifesto in which it announces that
the irish rebellion has proved an abor
tion, but at the same time intimates its
determination to retain possession of
the funds raised in the states in aid of
the movement, without accountability,
until ireland shall become a republic,
or some other greek kalend conting
ency of the like kind shall occur
finally, we have a report of the trium
phant reception given to hecker, the
german refugee, tim representative ol
the massacres and sanguinary tumult
of frankfort, and a thundering leading
article in ridicule and denunciation ol
the negroes. this is the white and
black side of the shield. the autocrat
of all the russias would be "hocked at
the sentiments recorded with regard to
slavery, while, from the philippics in
favour of liberty, blanqui and barbes
might extract consolation.
the reception given to herr hecker
is thus introduced to the reader’s
notice
red republicanism.
“tremendous enthusiasm.
the red cap and red flao.
in
old tammany.”
in the editorial remarks we are in
formed that the enthusiasm of the
meeting, and the intense sympathy ex
hibited for the cause of revolt in eu
rope, surpassed all power of descrip
tion. a red cap of liberty and a red
flag were hoisted, and the sight of them
again excited the crowd, who renewed
their cheers and plaudits. the editor,
[of the new york herald,] however,
must speak for himself, and explain
what he conceives to be the aestheticul
objects of a revolutionary struggle
'hie heart of raspail would have
leaped for joy—l'wis blanc would have
shed tears of rapture—barbes would
have grinned and chuckled in his prison
at vincennes, to see and hear the
loud, rapturous enthusiasm with which
the red flag was greeted. it plainly
proved that, whatever the cooler heads
and hearts of a few may mediate, the
mass of mankind, when once put in
motion and roused up from the tranquil
ity of daily life and occupation, are
naturally red republicans, and belong
instinctively to the mountain party—
that they all naturally go for an equal
division of property, and for an equal
share, by hook or by crook, of gin
slings and sherry cobblers.
as soon as the enthusiasm had a
little subsided, the serious business ol
the meeting began. gen. walbridge
addressed the assembly with ready elo
quence and amusing wit, in english,
“a language,’* ears our new york
cotemporary, next to german the best
that call bt spoken, excepting, w#-
ever, the harmonic italian or gmh<b
loquent spanish.” vy ben .taken in
connection with a declaration of the
negroes, which is in another part of the
same journal, the assertions of the
spnakernotrike os as being a tittle odd.
the general first taxes every citizen of
the united states with the responsibili
ty of legislation—therefore, of ware-
benign influence of our institu
tions, extending abroad, baa wry
where tended to the political elevation
of there can he no ques
tion but that liberty, restrained bj
constitutional tire, in the present domi
nant sentiment of the age nor can k
be oaestaeeed that the american pen
pie ere g«dio* this sentiment ns s
.penveises the ocree of human pasaior
abroad. in america, if nothing had
to be removed, free institutions rapidlj
advanced to maturity without obstrec
sllsissskozisiiltsls
each nan feel* that fee is an integral
portion of the national sovereignty, and
that an aggregate majority of the
individual villa upon any given subject
constitutes that irresiatsle public sen
timent which should control iegialntioo,
end give efficiency to law. tte intel
ligence of the people thus feecomee the
fiardiaa of popular liberty.—jww
ork herald.
the “gineral” then proceeds, in
the oratorical style indigenous h the
states, about “luther,’* sod imposing
moral spectacles,” and “the bright
firmament of heaven,” and the” mys
terious providence that presides over
our benign institutions,” fcc., &c.
when be bad finished talking, and the
marstuaiu had been played by tbs
band, and herr hecher bad made a
speech in german, which ttobody but
his own countrymen understood,' mr
fwrch, a native of germany, but a
naturalized american, proceeded to
drop manna into the ears of his iodi>
ence
he could not help saying that it did
them honor, great honor, while at the
same time this cordial welcome of
hecker to the shores of the new
world by the mayor and common
council of the city of new york, is
not only gratifying and flattering to the
german feelings of us, the adopted
german citizens, but it thrown back
into the teeth the reproach of european
tyranny—it washes out the brand of
infamy with which the corrupt tyrants
of the old world seek to stamp every
friend of human rights and liberty, and
practically refutes the false aspersion
of the malignant epithet of criminal and
malefactor, with which such men as
hecker are branded. yes, america
is is the land to which belongs the hon
or of being the parent, the support,
the friend, the fosterer of human liber
ty throughout the whole world.
(cheers.) here, in the free land of
the brave and the free, the free and op
pressed of all countries will find a wel
come and a friend
it should not bw forgotten that on a
previous day mr. hecker had been
publicly received by the mayor and
town council. his honor on that day
expressed a hope, that while mr. heck
er remained among them “he might
learn the beauties of those institutions,
of the land where freedom delighted to
dwell. would one not imagine that
the very cab-horses in the united states
gave motion to the vehicles simply un
der the influence of moral restraint?
would nut one suppose that, at the
slightest intimation of fatigue on the
pai) of the agpal in question, the con
ductor or driver would put himself be
tween the shafts, and suffer the horse to
get inside? wait a moment; let os see
how human beings, how the fellow-crea
tures of those who delight to tickle each
other’s ears with this miserable cant
about liberty and free institutions are
treated in america.
mr. frederick johnson, [douglass,]
the well known negro emancipationist,
in conjunction with others of his op
pressed race, has published a manifesto
to his colored brethren, of which the fol
lowing is an extract. the passage is a
far more forcible comment upon all the
flummery served up at“ou tammany,”
than anyhing here could be:—
“but, fellow countrymen, it is not so
much our purpose to cheer you by the
progress we have already made, as it is
to stimulate you to a still higher attain
ment. we have done much, but there
is much more to be done.—while we
have, undoubtably, great cause to thank
god, and take courage for the hopeful
changes that have taken place in our
condition, we are not without cause to
mourn over the sad condidioo, which
we yet occupy. we are yet the" most
oppressed people in the world. in the
southern states of this union we are
held as slaves. all over that wide re
gion our paths are marked with blood.
our backs are et scarred by the lash,
and our are yet dark under the
pall of slavery. our sisters are sold
for the purpose of pollution, and our
brethren are sold in the market with
hearts of bur len. shut up in the pris
on house of bondage—denied all rights
and deprived of all privileges—we are
blotted from the page of human exis
tence, and placed beyond the limits o|
human regard. death—moral death—
has repulsed our souls in that quarter,
mod we are a murdered people.”
the temperate and manly language
of this manifesto s treated with unspar
ing ridicule in the first leading article
of the paper from which we have ex
tracted all the rest. [acts york herald.)
it is declared to be “quite a curiosity
in philosophy, literature, and shaving.”
the agitation in favour of the abolition
of negro slavery, being what it is des
cribed above—is represented as a move
ment for the abolition of shaving and
boot-blacking. “are the blacks and
whites to marry and be given in mar
riage together?” and this is the tone in
which slavery is treated hi the chosen
temple of human freedom. have oar
american friends casr beard of a cer
tain man whoat vision was mterisred
with by sbdam, bat who was extremely
solicitous to remove a little motsfoom his
brother’s eye?
frmb sc fas* sail ftinlsnt
aibucaiiutbbt.
this mmtttottnn of slavery is as evil
which has sot a aiogle redeeming fea
ture. in most easts, whatever is lost
by ooe set of meats gained by another;
but is this hmtsucs it is tot so, for the.
slaveholders and the slaves are alike
injured. tim latter, is consequence
of beta* almost deprived of education,
fe«sd sea sumdnu
*ww wmk&loflp
while the former, pltmtg^he
faculties which were |ivea to tbaai lot
tha noblest purposes.
the influence upon the mads and
the social condition of the colored met
is pitable in the extreme. we behok
a race of men who, we are assured b>
high authority, were created in the im
age of god, and who were placed in
this world, in order that they may pre
pare for a higher state of existence, de
prived almost entirely ol the means of
intellectual culture, and kept by their
owners, like the horses in their stalls,
in a sound and healthy condition,
simply yith a view to pecuniary ad
vantage. to those unfortunate be
ings, the pleasures of social life, the
higher pleasures of intellectual pur
suits, and tbs still puyer pleasures of
rational piety, are almost entirely un
known, with reference to the slaves
the selfish policy of man counteracts
the benevolent designs of deity, and
the light he intended should beam
upon their darkened minds is almost
excluded by artificial regulations,
which state governments have formed
for the purpose of keeping them in per
petual bondage. yes? in this g/orious
republic, and in the midst of the light
of the nineteenth century, there are
hundreds of thousands of adults who
are kept by the wicked policy of man in
profound ignorance, who, as far as re
gards intellectual improvement, arc
mere children, and who have not yet
entered upon that career of improve
ment which nature has opened before
them. the slam and stripes—the glo
rious banner of the free—floats as
proudly over them as over us, but those
emblems of freedom are as un'ntelli
gible to them as the hierogliphics of
egypt. the truths of the declaration
independence, which, when they are ut
tered, awaken thrilling emotions iu the
bosom of every true american, are un
heard by them, or if they are beard,
they are mysteries which they do not
comprehend. even the doctrines ot
religion do not exercise their prosper
influence upon them, for they seld rn
enlighten their minds, or purify th to
hearts. destitute of the great gilt ot
reason and of other faculties, they mig.bt
perform all the duties which they now
perforin, and enjoy all the pleasures
they now enjoy
slavery interferes greatly with the
domestic happiness of the slave popu
lation. the pleasant associations that
linger around the home of even the
humble cottager, have no connection
with the rude cabin of the sluve. the
inmates of those unsightly abodes are
generally as destitute ot interest as the
dwellings are of beauty, and the slaves
retire to them, at the close of their dai
ly lab h, like pnsouers to their cells,
not to mingle in intelligent conversation
with their iaimlies, or to enjoy the re
fined pleasures of social life, but to rest
from the fatigues of the day, and to
gratify their auimal propensities. all
those things that constitute attrac
tions of homes of freemen are unknown
to the cheerless abodes of slaves. they
are more like it rational brutes than
like bemgs endowed with immortal
minds, susceptible-of endless improve
ment in knowledge and iu virtue.
the institution of slavery also affects
the family relations of slaves. as they
'hre entirely the property of their mas
ters, and as they may be diaposed of by
them, whenever their interest or ca
price may dictate, the family relations
are liable, at any time, to be disturbed.
husbands may be torn from their wives,
and children from their parents, at the
option of their owners. slaves have
uatural affections, as well as civilized
men, and we cannot doubt but they
have experienced a vast amount of suf
fering, in consequence of their separa
tion.
slavery also produces debasing ef
fects on the morals of slaves. it is the
nature of slavery to destroy every no
ble feeling of the mind, and to leave in
existence those of a grovelling nature.
persons thus circumstanced fall more
easily victims to the artifice of unprin
cipled men. even in civilized coun
tries, where slavery does not exist,
many of the young and inexperienced,
are enticed from the path of virtue by
the wickedness of artful men. and it
must, in the nature of things, be still
worse in communities where the per
sons of individuals are within the con
trol of their owners. we have reaeon
to believe that in lt»ose communities of
fences against virtue and decency are
frequently committed, that unsuspect
ing slaves oflen become an easy prey
to those who should be the pr«4ectors
of their ionocence. we have reason to
believe that the slaves are as destitute
of virtue as they are ol intelligence,
nod that the want of both is to be attri
buted mainly to their servile condition.
er€umh tews «t the presides*
tui contest.
the precedents before us are not of
nature to dispel all alarm, la tb*
ever-raging contest for the american
presidency, there is itothra so effect
ual aa a good war-cry. there is al
ways a war party in the united states.
mr. polk came in with a mexican war
and all oregon or none” on hie han
mm. tha former promise be bee suffi
ciently redeemed, akb much glory and
venr little profit. on the letter point
be has allowed b<s party engagmeou to
ha interpreted hy public justice and dts
awtioa. bat another ejection is at
head; candidate, are in the field, not
only for that but f*r subsequent cor»-
tmka, and tacticians are already pre-
f turr
rglngmaa pksfiss waon i._
celtic g|ii|milu— os
joh3 dick. p»uim«.
whole no. —19
irish are a very large, and under ce®-
lioual immigration* an increasing party
in the unrted states. they have al*
ways encouraged, and this year have
even promised to assist a rebellion in
ireland. but .they prefer, in genetai,
to operate against england through (he
politics of their adopted country, al*
ways siding with the anti-british party,
without reference to any other consul
erations. general caw ts said to be
secure of every irishman in the union,
because, aa his supporters profess, if
elected, he will seise the first opportu
nity of a war with england. that ev
ery statesman of moderate honor and
sense in the states will see the wicked
ness and folly of a gratuitous war,
entertaia .no manner of doubt; but a
canny*, be concealed that a furious war
party aud a presidential election every
four years, are a combination suggest
ive of danger. in the hour of eng-
i land’s weakness or distinction, in a dis
astrous crisis of european waifare,
under provocations or pretences which
no care on our part can prevent, with
ireland insurgent and canada near, a
successful candidate for the seat of
washington may find himself too deeply
and furiously pledged to wit. draw, and
the irish citizens of the union may
succeed in dragging the two nati ns
into a war, from which england will
most grievously suffer, but from
which we do not think t.iat the u ited
states will emerge without irrenaiuble
harm.
even in this country, under the de
cent veil of monarchical aud aristocrat
ical institutions, we have often wit
nessed during the last century, and not
less in this, the enormous mischief done
by what may be called our presidential
contest the struggle tor ministerial
power. even within the last dozen
years we have seen parties so evenly
balanced in this island as to drive the
actual occupants of office to the m. st
discreditable alliances, the most mis
chievous concessions, and the m <st
flagrant abuse of official patronage
during that long struggle between sir
robert peel and the party now in pow
er, which, on the one had, so lataily
blinded that statesman’s eyes to the
impossibility of the engagements t.uust
upon him by hisfiiends, the whigs, on
on the other hand, were thrown into me
arms of the irish incendiaries. from
1837 to 1841, great britain was gov
erned by ireland. it is notorious that
during that period the solicitation® of
one irish supporter was all-powerful,
not only for irish, but for english pa
tronage; and, as we know by an ex
ample, that one irish member could
carry off a prize denied to the joint re
presentati »nsof six english and scotch.
among other causes tiiat have con
tribgfd to th* present outbreak in ire
j be numbered that cup d.ty
tor place, which, niter a temporary en
couragement, is now found impossible
to satisfy. 'i he public results of that
untoward combination, tell their own
tale. the cause of order has been
permanently injured by the fell necessi
ty which drove honorable men to seek
refuge in a den of conspiratt rs. that
such necessities have arisen under a
partial representative system, is a fact
which indicates the still greater danger
of a purely elective government.—lon
don i'imes.
the first birth, the first min
ister, &c.—the first white child in
north america, wan virginia, daughter
of ananias and eleanor lare, and
grand daughter of' governor john
white. she was born on the itifb day of
august, 1587, in roanoke, north car
olina. her parents were of the expe
dition sent out by sir walter raleigh
in that year. there is no record of
her history, save that of her birth.
the first minister who preached the
gospel in north america was robert
hum, of the church of england, an
exemplary man, who came out in the
same company with captain john
smith, in the year 1607. he waa much
esteemed as a man of peace, and was
in many ways useful to the colony.
there is no record of his death, or of
his returning to england he most
probably died at jamestown. he had
a good library, which was burnt, with
all his other property, in hie burning of
jamestown, the next winter after he
came out.
the first females who came to vir
ginia proper, were mrs. fore»t, and
her maid, anne burras, in the expe
dition of newport, 160$ the first
marriage in virginia was in the same
year—john ladon to anne burras.
the ceremony was probably by the
same good master huot.”
the first intermarriage between the
whites and indians wsa john* rolle to
pocahontas, in april, 191& pota
hontas was also the first of the viigmia
indians that embraced christiai ity ar.d
was baptized.
the first legislative assembly in
virginia met in july, 1619. at the sum
mon* of governor or georgs yeaidley.
owe month later, negroes w#»s first
brought into (he colony by a dutch
man of war.
the first periodical in north ameri
ca, was the boston news letter, which
loads its appears nee in august, jw.
the first mi the old dominion. tbs
virginia gazette, published at wil
itamsburg, by william parks, r **ff
at fifteen shillings. it appeared in 1736,
sod was long tbs only paper publs-urd
in tbe colony. slavery preceded the
periodical press fiy 117 veers.
the blue ridf* erased by
wbiles hi 1714. the first iron furnace
•rested in north america wee by gov-
w""* notices
rochester
anti-slavery
bazaar,
tn hr m 4 ptrxmhtr *m <mi ill, ims.
we strain announce to*the public that out
annual basaar m near ai hand, and wih afford
an opportunity of making sympathetic effort
in behalf of the suffering millions in our midst
a glance at the object of our most holy and
benevolent enterprise, is sufficient to arouse the
least inquiring mind from its lethargy, to a
hearty co-opertion in making our fair worthy
of those who duly estimate the blessings of
freedom. the farmer will confer a great
favor by donations of any of the various pro
ductions of his farm—eggs, butter, &c.; and
merchants, mechanics, grocers and confec
tioners will do great service to the cause by
lending their aid. donations for our book
table will be very gratefully received.
the friends of the cause in egland, scot
land and ireland, inform us that boxes of
goods lor our fair are on the way. among
ihe many articles named, are the following
isofit guards, watch pockets, slippers,
five elegant collars doyley’s, bracelets,
necklaces, bags, children’s frocks, shoes,
aprons, bibs, bridal party and opera danc
ers, (dolls) tuckers, baskets, beautiful draw*
nigs and pictures, colored drawings,thoves,
knitted tippets, caps, one side-saddle, ac.,
abigail bush, pree’t.
sarah c. owen, sec’y,
toronto, nov. 7, 1848.
we, the undersigned, authorize the rev.
washington christian to act as the only
agent of the british american anti slavery
society.
b. rankins, chairman.
a. judah. h. richards,
c. davis, jas. johnson,
j. harper, wm. thompson,
wm. harney, geo. brown,
chas. freeman, sec’y.
western new york anti-slavery society.
the executive committee will meet on
tuesday evening next, dec. sth, at the anti-
slavery office, 25, buffalo street.
attendance is requested at half past 7
o’clock precisely.
w. c. nell, rec. sec
from uh* charleston mercury, nov. 9.
highly important pro-slavery move
ment iu the south.
pursuant to call a meeting of citizens of
orangeburg district was held to-day, 6th no
vember, in the court-house, which was well
lied on the occasion.
on motion of capt. jacob stroman, hon.
s. glove was called to the chair, and drs. t.
a. elliott and j. w. taylor appointed sec
retaries. the chairman then made some brief
remarks, stating the object of the meeting.
gen. d. f. jamison then rose, and moved
the appointment of a committee of twenty
five, to take into consideration the continued
agitation by congress of the question of slave
ry whereupon the following committee was
appointed :—gen. d. f. jamison, capt. jacob
stioman, capt donald rowe, capt, p. s.
jennings, major d. j. rumph, col. w. l.
lewis, capt. murray robinson, dr. w. s.
rowe, j. b. me michael, john h. felder,
dr. j. d. rumph, col. a. ott, j. j. wann
maker, thos. oliver, capt. lewis felder,
major d. s. dannelly, capt. o. m. danizler,
cayt. d. houser, j. j. andrews, dr. beni.
lewis, henry ellis, l. e. cooncr, dr. j. h.
morgan, capt.|l. e. d. bowman, «£apt. v.
d. v. jamison.. w
during the absence of the committee, capt.
t. b. whaley addressed the meeting; after
which, the committee, through their chair
man, gen. jamison, made the following
report:
the committee appointed to take into con
sideration the continued agitation, by con
gress, of the question of slavery, what
checks can be interposed to prevent such
attacks upon the character and institutions of
the south, and if that cannot be prevented, to
declare what stand they are now prepared to
take on this most important subject, beg
leave to submit the following report, and the
accompanying resolutions:
the time has arrived when the slavehold
ing states of this confederacy must take de
cided action upon the continued attacks of the
north against their domestic institutions, or
submit in silence to that humiliating position
in the opinions of mankind that longer ac
quiescence must inevitably reduce them.
forbearance is often a virtue with nations as
with individuals; but when it involves the
loss of position or character in either, it is
base, dishonorable submission. if the south
will permit the constitution to be trampled
under foot; if she is willing to become a fixed
minority, used only to assist in registering
edicts for a jealous, hostile, and unjust majori
ty, who admit no rule to govern by but their
own wills, and no measure but the keenest
conception of their own interest, it is best that
it should be known to us at once, and that we
should endeavor to accommodate curselves, as
well as we may, to a state of things so de
grading. that such will be the inevitable
result of longer submission to the incessant
attacks on our characters and institutions,
your committee cannot for a moment doubt,
unless the south shall take firm and concerted
action to prevent it. the agitation of the
subject of slavery commenced in the fanatical
murmurings of a few scattered abolitionists,
to whom it was a long time confined but
now it has swelled into a torrent of popular
opinion at the north; it has invaded the
fireside and the church, the press and the
halls of legislation it has seized upon the
deliberations of congress, and at this mo
ment is sapp’lng the foundations, and about
to overthrow the fairest political structure that
the ingenuity of man has ever devised.
the overt efforts of abolitionism were con
fined for a long period to annoying applica
tions to congress, undercolor of the pretended
right petition; it has since directed the
whole weight ef its malign influence against
the annexation of texas, and had well nigh
cost to the country the loss ot that important
province; but emboldened by success .and the
inaction of the south, in an unjust and selfish
spirit of national agrarianism, it would now
appropriate the whole public domain. it
might well have been supposed that the undis
turoed possession of the whole of oregon
territory would have satisfied the non-slave
holding states. this they now hold, by the
incorporation of the ordinance of 1787 into
the bill of the last session for establishing a
territorial government for oregon. that
provision, however, was not sustained by them
from any apprehension that the territory could
ever be settled from the states of the south,
but it was intended aa a gratuitous insult to
the southern people, and a malignaut and
unjustifiable attack upon ths institution of
slavery.
the boundary between the aiavebolding and
ommliwholding
fixed by a solemn compact on the part of the
two bectiotis, known as the miaou n com
promise, and the line of
was adopted aa the limit between thorn.
whatever may be the opinions of your com
mittee as to the propriety of this compact,
and the concessions made by the south to
preserve the union, they would not be wil
ling to see|tt disturbed, ss it has been sanc
tioned by tune and long acquiescence; but
beyond that, they would not concede one
inch, should it shatter this —federacy into
thirty ftutttuoto. it is this further concession
that we me now called upon to make, la
deed, no new fine has beat hinted at. we
•re called upon to give up the whole public
donate to the fenatical cravings of abmitioo
tem, and tha unholy lost of political power.
a territory, acquired by the whole eouorty
for the use of all, where treasure has been
squandered like chaff, and southern blood
poured out like water, is sought to be appro
priated by one section, because the other
chooses to adhere to aa institution held not
only under the guarantees that brought this
confederacy into existence, but under the
highest sanctions of heaven. should we
quietly fold our hands under this assumption
on the part of the aon-slavbeholding states,
the fate of the south is sealed, the institu
tion of slavery is gone, and ha existence will
be but a question of time. are the southern
people prepared for such a base abandonment
of their natural, aoeiat and political rights
your committee hope not; they believe not.
what, then, shall be the remedy? your
committee are unwilling to anticipate what
will be the result of the combined wisdom
and ioint action of the southern portion of
the confederacy on this question; but ss an
initiatory atep to a concert of action on the
part of the people of south carolina, they
respectfully recommend for the adoption of
this meeting, the following resolutions:
readved, that the continued agitation of
the question of slavery, by the people of the
none-slaveholding states, by their legislatures,
and by their representatives in congress, ex
hibits not only a want of national courtesy,
which should always exist between kindred
states, but is a palpable violation of good
faith towards the waveholding states, who
adopted the present constitution in order to
form a more perfect union.’
resolved, that while we acquiesce in
adopting the boundary between the slave
holding and non-slaveholdi ng states', known
as the mtssoun compromise tine, we will not
submit to any further restriction upon the
rights of any southern man to carry his
property and his institutions into territory ac
quired by southern treasure and by southern
blood.
resolved, that should the wilmot proviso,
or any other restriction, be applied by con
gress to the territories of the united states,
south of 36 deg. 30 min, north latitude, we
recommend to our representative in congress,
as the decided opinion of this portion of his
district, to leave his scat in that body, and
return home.
resolved, that we respecifully suggest to
both houses of the legislature of of south
carolina, to adopt a similar recommendation
as to our senators in congress from this
state.
resolved, that upon the return home of
our senators and representatives in con
gress, the ’legislature of south carolina
should be tbuliwith assembled, to adopt such
measures as the exigency may demand.
resolved, that a copy of the foregoing
report and resolutions be transmitted, by the
chairman of this meeting, to our representa
tives in congress, and that copies of the same
be laid before both bodies of the legislature
of south carolina.
after a few remarks by the chairman of
the committee, the report and resolutions
were seconded by capt. v. d. v. jamison,
who was followed by capt. o. m. v. dania
ler.
the resolutions were then submitted,
seriatim, and, together with the report, were
unanimously adopted.
on motion of capt. jamison, it was ordered
that copies of the proceedings of this meeting
be sent to the charleston mercury aud courier
and the south carolinian, with a request that
they be published.
s. glover, chairman.
j. w. taylor, c
t. a. eiuot, l secre,,mai
all have their price, prom crowns to
kicks.”—the law of moses allowed the mas
ter to chastise his servant within an inch of
his life, because, says the code, he is his
money.” abbot lawrence has been using
his privilege it seems upon his man dan.
webster, and the bostonians are making a
row about it, but mr. w. has been so muni
ficently paid, aud has done his work so badly
of late that his patrons may be pardoned if not
justified for pnmmeling him a little occasion
ally. the boston times is very indignant at
the insult given by mr. lawrence to mr.
webster,—the man of money to the man of
mind—as it describes them, and seems to
think that it has reached a startling conclusion
in the discovery that the money of new eng
land rules its intelligence. we think the
conclusion is too broad for the premises. mr.
webster’s, servility is a matter of special con
tract, and is, therefore, very far from estab
lishing a general rule. there is enough of
intelligent independence left in yankedom yet
to save the land. —philadelphia republic.
more nullification. —mr. b.* barnwell
rhett, in a recent speech, advises, the
southern states to instruct their senators and
request their representatives to leave their
seats in congress, should abolition in any of
its forms, prevail in the legislation of con
gress.” this same mr. rhett, having got
his temper up, some twelve yeare since, in
the house of representatives, at an abolition
speech made by mr. slade, of vermont, rose
from his seat, left the house, and called on
all the southern members to follow him;
some twelve did, but the majority only laughed
at his folly. —boston bee.
gen. taylor on slavery. —the pasca
goula con espondent of the mobile herald,
thus writes of gen. taylor’s views ou this
subject, as expressed by the old slaveholder
himself.
last evening, a group of some dozen or
more of us were gathered around him, eager
ly listening to an animated conversation, in
which his native simplicity of manner was
quite charming. he ran through various top
ics, which he illustrated with excellent sense
and varied information. speakingof the free
soil movement in the north, he expressed his
fears that it would be the absorbing question
in the present canvass, and engross all other
questions. he said that he considered the
missouri compromise” a fair and liberal line
for settling the slave question, and he was
willing to see it adopted.
while, however, he regretted the system,
he deprecated the foreign attempts to abolish
slavery. he thinks the agitation on the sub
ject fiernicioua to both whiles and blades.—
the two races could not exist together, and a
mixed race, such as' obtains in mexico, was
the greatest evil that society could be subject
ed to. no plan of eradicating slavery met his
approbation, unless the freed negroes could
be removed from the country. he wouldnot
emancipate his own slaves, except on condi
tion that they were willing to go to africa.—
to the northern states he would not send
them. their condition there would be worse
than that of bondage. he thought that if the
really philanthropic men at the north, whose
efforts to abolish the system are restricting the
privileges of the slave, could see its practical
o|ierauon, the agitation would cease, and there
would be lea seal and more wisdom »thil>iod
in the cause. as he expressed it. they would
better observe the “eleventh commandment,”
which prescribes that every mi n attend
o his own badness.”
greeley on taylor !—consenting to
support gen. taylor for the preridency,
horace greeley made the follow tan state
ment
but i have not chanced my opinion of the
nomination of gen. taylor. 1 believe h wa
unwise sad unjust. for gen. taylor per
sonally, 1 have ever spoken with respect; bat
i believe a candidate could aad should have
been chosen more deserving, more capable,
more popular. 1 cannot pretend to support
him with enthssiasm, for urn not feel <my.
the north star.
hochester, december i, ims.
rabliakofs haifa*.
three more —ln n will a—pteto the first vat
me of our paper. it fa knows to amt of sir
readers thst the hosts star ir estiretjr iade
resdm of every society, sad fa aappovted by aa
togaaiatios shaierer. the price fa two dotes
per iotb whes the tens paid far has expired,
the paper fa invariably mopped; so that aa aaa fa
ever adfayccted by as to the aspfaa#
being troubled with the bifi for paper* which be does
aot read, sad doss sot waat. hew, friends, we
doa*t like to stop year papers. there fa so part of
oar dsty more implrareni, sad which we woam
more willingly avoid, tea that of stroking oat a
mme from the anil book. very may of yes ba
gaa with os at the hegtaaiag. we have udhsd to
yoa week after week, sad yoalave beeoaie iaamm
anasare acquainted with as. do yoa at rrfah to
rralias sad make ante intimate that kqafaaal
we waat still to talk to yst; bat rsnant afford to
do so, aalemyoßsapply as with the anus. itfaaet
needful to tell yoa of the amount of good the noam
stab has doas of tbs prejudice it has overcome
the aau-sfavery aestimeat it has dfaseraiastod—the
recruits it has woe to the ranks of freedom—ths
desire and effort for ealight earnest sad dr ratios to
which it has aroused the despised aad oppressed,—
of all this yoa are yoarselves competent judges.
friends, will you aid us in this matter 1 witt yoa
go with im> through another year? if you wish to do
so, sead oa your subscriptions through our agent, or
by post, if there is no agent within reach, before the
dose of the year, aud the north star will con
tinue u> arise upon you weekly, with increased and
increasing brightness. will you do this? "the
laborer is worthy of his hire.”
03- money sent by post will he entirely at our
risk; but we should like to have current money, or
as nearly so as possible.
lecturing.
mr. douglass has been prevented from
attending to his editorial duties this week, by
engagements to lecture in various towns in
massachusetts, and the time consumed in
travelling. on saturday last, he was to
lecture in salem—sunday in lynn—monday
in new bedford—tuesday in west brook
field—and on wednesday expected to be at
springfield; from thence he will wend his
way homeward, and will be at his poet next
week.—j. d.*
the end is not yet.
the contest for the present political prize
has ended, and the result, as we have always
predicted, is the elevation of gen. zachary
taylor, an uncompromising slaveholder to
the chief magistracy of this nation—a nation
professedly the freest on the globe. and
doubtless the slave power will dare claim it
as a triumph even over the progress of free
principles. this they will do, not that they
so believe, but obviously for the ostensible
purpose of gulling their unthinking votaries,
thereby securing their suffrage for the next
coming contest, to be decided in 1852, which
should now be considered as fairly begun, and
so regarded in all of their actions by every
vigilant friend of universal liberty and unre
stricted equality.
whatever may be thought by others, we
regard the result of the late campaign as a
victory indirectly gained for freedom—not
that the hypocritical canting of unprincipled
whig politicians, nor th+jaljen stupidity of
the heartless slaveholding nominee of that
party, would so indicate but there are other
features of this mighty canvass which satisfy
us that in the midst of the troubled spirits
of darkness,” there certainly hovered ’’angels
of light.”
there are doubtless those of the friends of
freedom, who, notwithstanding the large fig
ure of the vote polled in freedom’s cause, feel
disappointed at the result, having expected a
much greater vote; and many of the enemies
of freedom, who rejoice at the issue, as omin
ous of the future abandonment of the anti
slavery movement at the north. but let us,
we mean the people of the north, the true
friends of freedom, one and all, be not de
ceived. this our enemies will endeavor most
effectually to accomplish, by scattering dis
couragement in every direction, and thereby
induce us to abandon the effort to throw off
the slave power, and free ourselves from mis
rule, despotism and slavery.
it is evident that for years previous to the
formation of any other than the two great
political parties, the whigs have endeavored
to gain the ascendancy in this nation, and for
tliis reason many schemes of policy have
been adopted. among them, as a party, it
must be admitted that there has been more
liberality at the north among the democrats,
whose most exalted aim appeared to be, sub
serviency and servility to the slaveholders.—
this they managed with such adroitness for
years, as to keep {the laboring classes who
were enfranchised in continual hostile array
against all other parties—the opponents of
liberty and enemies to the slave. hence,
the democrats (so called) were-able to main
tain the ascendancy, as they have done foi
years.
a radical change in public opinion, in order
to break the spell and tear loose the fetters
which the democratic influence had thrown
around and bound the north to the south,
being actually necessary before that monstrous
cloven-footed beast could be overthrown, for
which purpose the anti-slavery movement was
commenced eighteen years ago. move re
cently, a political anti-slavery party was
formed, as the avowed northern political
party, and the only party in which honest
voters could conscientiously exercise thff
right of election. the avowed principles of
this party were, uncompromising hostility to
slavery, in any shape of existence, in this
country. the whigs, having been previously
considered the liberal party, among whom
were many excellent men—men of principle
and inveterate opponents of slavery, at once
assumed to themselves, or avowed [m their
principles, all that the liberty party declared
or espoused.
it is evident that this had the effect of se
curing to their ranks all those who mast have
left them aad united with the sati-abvery
party. so long aa one of the riavehridng
parttea cootinoes in power, and the ether ia a
■tats of perfect organization, the frisods of
freedom, however pare their principfea, must
coo tin oe ia the ouaanty, and rnmiiqmllj
•aflat continual defeat.
a victory, then, was necessary to aacam
foturc saeeeas, and it waa fee this perpoae
they united; and oe thie aeemmt alone do we
jateff tha ahaadaawhet of the liberty party,
and its aafon with fragments of fens
papular gtee soil hat
the democratic party, tearing it mandat, m
it «pal eertaialy has baen, driving its erippted
aad pstilim victims a evaiy diraatjoa,
never again, it is hoped, to be brought intfl
effective action.
the cry of freedom against slavery, raised
had aroused the whole country to chastening
indignation. the deception of the whip
waa no longer tolerated; the aervikty of the
democrats was rebuked with contempt; and
rfim insolence »"*t despotism of the man thhd
repelled with severe chastisement. to this
point had we arrived in our political progress,
when the whig*, seeing there was no al
ternative, at ooee assumed the position of the
free soil party, inseparably associating with
thair every movement the name of free soil,
and in many instances the whole of the free
soil motto—“ free soil, free territory,
free speech, and free men.” it was amus
ing enough to see associated with the name
of gen. taylor, the owner and occupant of a
thousand acres of slave territory, and three
hundred human beings in worse than heathen
darkness, thus— taylor and free soil.”—
this was a fraud and deception so palpable,
that we felt our intelligence insulted whenever
we saw the inscription. even the democrats
iared finger upon their guide-posts, “csss
and free soil.” the unblushing coolness of
this last trick, is only equalled by the effront
ery which suggested iu display.
conscious as all were that jthe friends of
freedom could not in the current canvass suc
ceed, and anxiously desiring a defeat of the
almost stereotyped administration party, and
thousands of honest men of both the old par
ties determined at least to place free princi
ples in the ascendancy, determined on support
ing the whig party, which they did, declaring
that, although their leader was a vile slave
holder, he dared not act against the power
that elected him, which was known to be the
professed friend of freedom. many were
the liberty men, as well as professed aboli
tionists, who supported the whig ticket,
rather than suffer defeat.
it will readily be perceived, that a majority
of those opposed to the slave power, sup
ported the whig nomination for the present,
but in doing so, rested their support entirely
on the principles of freedom espoused by that
party. further than this, we have every
assurance they will not go. the friends of
freedom have everything to hope for in the
coming contest for the next four years, as the
cause is essentially theirs. neither of the
old parties possibly can succeed. it will be
useless to make the effort. to effect any
thing, they must openly, and without guile,
espouse the cause of freedom, in stern and
uncompromising opposition to the encroach
ments of the slaveocracy, unfurling the ban
ner of no compromise with slaveholders,”
boldly placing in their front, as the file-leader
of the party, a man in favor of liberty and
equality, in the true sense of the term—to do
which, will be at once to throw off the old
party fetters—abandon the political trammels
—deny the sectional faith—be baptized anew
—washed in the pool of regeneration, and
enter the rank* of the true friends of -free
dom, which must become the predominant
party, henceforth to*guard over the detiniesof
this nation.—m. r. d.
harrisburg, pa., nov. 18, 1848.
dear douglass 1 arrived here on tnes
day morning the 14th, having left pittsburg
friday the 10th. on monday evening, i held
a meeting in carlisle, 18 miles west of here,
where i endeavored to spread light and troth
on the great and important subject of the ele
vation of the colored citizens of this oppressive
republic, and circulate the north star as a
medium and means of reaching them and the
public at large, when they can be reached by
no other instrumentality.
here they gave the best of attention, the
house being as well filled as could be expected
under the circumstanees, they being but few
in number in the place. the people here,
with but one exception, are poor, and conse
quently unable to do much. indeed, this
adjective may be applied in generaherms to
dut people, but here i apply it in a compara
tive sense to the masses, which makes the
application even more positive. hence, they
lid all they possibly could—gave the “wid
ow’s mite.”
notwithstanding this, there is an excellent
school for colored children, supported by the
public fund, taught by miss bell, an amiable
and quite accomplished teacher—one who is
qualified to teach the children ihe higher as
well as the practical branches of education,
which has long been and is still much wanted
in many of the schools in this country estab
lished for colored children.
miss bell took several classes through their
rations exercises, several of which had em
braced the branches upon which they were
examined as late as september, but three
booths since, many of the pupils of which
ure quite small; yet all, both male and femate,
went through their task with an ease and
pleasantoess which satisfied me that they
were familiar with their subjects, which fa
miliarity is absolutely necessary before the
knowledge obtained can be of practical use.
in arithmetic, they wiute down upon the
black-board and worked out soma with the fe*
rility of a counting-house clerk—geography,
trammsr and; bible stadia, all being demon
itrated with equal satisfaction.
4how different will be the intelligence of
tose ppptis, when leaving school, to those
generally dismissed from the common schools
■rang a, having finished their education, or
11 done going to school,” a it is properly
tenned when on examination of the scholar,
fen find that he or rise can “row aad write,”
tod that too in the most incorrect aad imper
fect manna, totally incapable of making a
practical application of any branch of study
*hich they profess to have gone through with
it school. incredible a this may appear to
tone opaeqaainiad with schools kept for eef
aved children, yet it is nevertheless tree, that
rite tombs ot our yonth are toned out upon
m having finished thaw education,
muacmmewil! ha acknowledged a vary bad
riucatioa. seldom be found ia aw eoew
ry towns aad small does, a ordered youth or
aridea wbo can ptncticady apply in basin we
purposes the arithmetic they ham learned at
who is abk to write s comet sen
■nee. evas the first nde of nsmpawtisa is
i generally violated by ibwi- which is, to be
i fit onsry flamenco with a capita] totter; also
tba( which hay 4wca]|*<ibe seeood, and om
of tbfi moot obvioes rales—that the preooui
all proper at particular aaiaoa, aa the
natoe of god and all hutnaa beings, aa well
aa many other things, whieh the seme will
suggest to any am -who has aunply road theat
rales, should be written with a capital.
you may think it somewhat singular, and
altogether misplaced, to lecture the readers ol
the north star, in an editorial correspond
ence on english grammar, but when you re*
feet oa the maimer in whieh we, aa oonduct
nrs of a public pram, are continually bared
by young ‘writers, aspirants for literary feme,
who openly and palpably violate' all these
roles, yon cannot think the strictures amiss in
this place.
mim bell has frequently been offered a bet
ter school and higher salary, to teach white
children, but refuses to leave the colored
■chool on any conditions. some of mim
bell’s pronunciations were not in accordance
with my taste or idea of euphony; for in
stance, too much stress was placed on the de
finite article wherever it occurred in the read
ing, thus—“ the lord spake unto moaes, say
mßt spieak unto the children of israel,”&c.;
also in reading, i thought that their punctua
tions were not properly observed; however,
as accent and punctuation are among the most
arbitrary ruipsot unr laagmge, especially the
former, continually undenting changes, f
consider this no very serious matter, as doubt
less mim bell teaches according to some rale,
adopting the system of some literary standard
or lexicographer. thanks, many thanks,
from the friends of humanity, especially the
colored people, to mim bell, for the excellent
manner in which she conducts this school of
the oppressed children of carlisle. her name
will be treasured up in the bosoms of the
grateful, to be honored and revered by the
rising generation.
i abide here with that well-tried friend of
his oppressed brethren, the friend of god and
humanity, rev. w. webb, and lady and in
teresting family. such a family, in such a
place, has never been half appreciated by
those with whom they are surrounded. the
children of this fihfnily are intelligent and in
teresting in a high degree, and will challenge
comparison with, and might well pot to blush,
those of their anglo-saxon neighbors for
good behavior. no better evidence of the ex
cellence of the character of a family is re
quired than the good conduct of the children.
in harrisburg, i have held three meetings
—on wednesday, thursday and friday eve
nings—endeavoring to awaken an interest
among our brethren in their own welfare, by
showing them the necessity of acting and do
ing for themselves—that we must, in fact,
become our own representatives in presenting
our own claims, and making known our own
wrongs.
here there is a good school kept by oar
mutual friend, mr. john’wolf, which school
i visited, finding many pupils of various sixes
present, but had not an opportunity of testing
their qualifications. mr. wolf, i am in
formed, is a gentleman of fine attainments,
and is much indebted to our able and talented
contributor, w. whipper, esq., of columbia,
for the direction of his mind. this of itself is
a recommendation to him.
the colored population of this borough is
estimated at between seven and eight hun
dred, among whom are many intelligent, in
dustrious people, several of whom have long
.been noted for their assiduity in business yet
notwithstanding, there is an apathy and indif
ference about our people in this place which
tests my ingenuity to account for. this is
apparent among the young people generally,
and the females in particular, though there
are many excellent exceptions. of all the
places i have yet visited, save the single ex
ception of springfield, ohio, which still bears
the palm, this place (harrisburg) i found the
most difficult to awaken a general interest
among the people. perhaps were a saint to
descend and attempt to speak to them, there
would be young women in the assembly who
would laugh and make sport on his first ap
pearance; and nothing but his scathing re
buke of such conduct would prove an effectual
remedy. hence, if they cannot come to mis
behave, they may not come at all; so that, of
a population n/ seven or eight hundred, i had
an average of fifty, as after the first night the
giddy did not come.
one of the great evils among oar people in
the holding of their meetings, is late com
mencing. when other meetings are nearly
ready to let out, ours are but commencing.—
this custom is so common, that i found it im
possible to get anything like an audience, even
of the few who did attend, until half-past
eight o’clock. this is sad, and i earnestly
suggest to our people everywhere, an imme
diate change. the common excuse is, that
they cannot get out earlier; but with this i
differ, and attribute the indifference to a want
of interest, from the fact, that let there be a
protracted church meeting, a “party” or any
other gathering, in which they take an inter
est, and one must go very early to get a seat
at all. heaven grant that we may be aroused
to a sense of our true condition, and stimu
lated to effort adequate to a remedy.
there are several owners of real estate in
harrisburg; yet the real wealth among them,
especially the old residents, is fast changing
hands, passing into those of the whites, upon
which they are growing wealthy, with foe
tunes to leave for their children.
an old and respectable citizen, who by year,
of industry and sleepless nights, had acquired
good property on market street, whieh in
the last two yean he had much improved, has
now been emhenled out of it by a process of
legal gambling, a nee with which the haaeait
unsuqmi ling old colored gentleman was unue
quamied. i perceive, also, that the estate of
the late esekiel carter, oo the mam street,
•■d nearly oppamje, has been wrested from
the heirs, by a similar pm cess, as 1 am re
formed sad now there is a row, rnnaisring
or sight of the finest praaned-bwch
dwellings in the capital, upon the >put; to
one of whieh boons* ranfes one of the mm
thisis an evil of tong endurance among ore
ramie aftor they obtain i»; bat the dafimt has
to firfil'h nuj of their qsakfisatiis mde mi
"ffrud to baaiasm for thereratoss. this is an
t*u .of immense magnitude, mi ahnam ah*
bn speedily remedied.
i cannot net that to twenty yuan, (foam
u® ims,)
*sr7i mrided in the that place, harr *bmg
hm increased (be lent in mm. the ooljr in>-
prnvnnaai a tome at the buildings, old
fr«a«o having fires place to honm at a man
darablo material. by the pohteoero of two
gentleman,and the civility at the warden who
utewb the capital, i *u eondneted through
both houses of state, and op to the dome,
where i had a fine prospect of the whole
borough, distinguishing every public building,
and the surrounding country far in the dis
tmdoe the general demeanor of the whites
is quite civil compared with their conduct to
wards douglass and ganisoa *in ’46, two
yoaia anon; but do not think i could my as
modi, had 1 attempted to hold a meeting in
the court house, to discuss the subject o f
american slavery, or the merits of taylor,
caro, and van boren for the presidency.—
indeed, i had a lair specimen in the conduct
of several of the hotel keepeis but two weeks
ago, none of whom would entertain .me for
the evening, although the cam arrived at near
twelve o'clock at night, staying until 7 next
rooming on the westward route.
i make my home here with mr. john wil
liams, and his intelligent lady, who most
kindly received me the night that stupid ig
norance and wicked prejudice debarred me
from shelter, and at whose door the anti
slavery latch-string always hangs out. mr.
and mrs. williams take high anti-slavery
ground, feeling closely identified with their
people, and stand ready at any time, can they
but get assistance, to enter into measures for
the support of the cause, and those who are
faithfully laboring for our elevation. to mr.
john wolf and bis amiable, intelligent lady,
whose house also keeps the welcome knocker
to the anti-slavery pilgrim on the door, 1 am
much indebted for kindness. i leave harris
burg in the morning for york.
youre for god and humanity,
m. r. delany.
the london times and n. y. herald.
our readers will be desirous to know what
reply, if any, the new york herald gave to
the severe chastisement inflicted upon it and
the rest of the pro-slavery american press by
the london times,which will be found on our
first page. the herald does attempt a reply
—just such a reply as was to be expected
from that miserably mean, iniquitous journal.
it is, of course, no reply, but simply a tirade
of recrimination and vulgarity. the entire
article is too long to publish; yet the tempta
tion is strong; to publish a part of .it, and hang
thereon a fact or two; not by way of rejoin
der, but simply to show what it is that the
new york herald, and other papers of that
stamp, to their everlasting shame be it spoken,
undertake to palliate and defend. says the
herald
instead of talking to us of the beam ii
our eye, and the mote in our brother’s, whi
does not the london times the con
dition of ireland, and endeavored ascertaii
whether the white slavery established in tha
unhappy land, on general principles— lh<
envy and admiration of surrounding nations
—does not present a far more revolting pic
ture in reference to restrictions on civil ant
social liberty, comfort and morality, than tha
of the black slaves of the southern states
where they live in clover, ‘year in and yeai
out,’ and where the scars and the lash, and
the servile misery and degradation, cannot
for a moment be compared with that of ire
land, or any of the british dependencies?
is he aware that the sister” country,
with boundless natural resources, and an intel
ligent and industrious population, has been in
connection with the time-worn constitution of
england for nearly seven hundred years, and
that her people are (he worst clad, the worst
housed, throughout god’s creation talk of
slaves! pshaw! how many thousands of
that unfortunate people, daring the famine of
the last three years, and during many a pre
vious one, would have been glad to have
bad the fare and the treatment of our southern
slaves!”
all this about the misery of ireland and the
british dependencies may be—indeed, every
one knows that it is quite true—though there
is a difference of opinion as to how much of it
is caused by misgovernment; and yet the
merest child would be ready to answer, that
although it is true, it does not in the least
excuse the atrocities perpetrated in this coun
try. now, let us see what the servile misery
and degradation is, which cannot for a mo
ment be compared with that of ireland or any
of the british dependencies.” to show this,
i will quote a few extracts from a book called
slavery as it is,” and could quote enough to
fill columns.
first, the slaves are badly fed.
hon. w. smith, a slaveholder, aid—“by
confining the slaves to the southern states,
where crops are raised for exportation, and
bread and meat are purchased, you doom
them to scarcity and hanger. it is proposed
to hem in the blacks where they are ill red.
rev. geo. whitfield, 1739—“ my blood
has frequently run odd within me, to think
bow- many of your slaves have not sufficient
food to eat.”
rev. john rankins—thousands of slaves
are pressed with the gnawings of cruel hun
ger during their whole lives.”
many more quotations of the same son
might be given, but their multiplicatioa is un
necessary. they serve to prove that the
slaves were not only kept to labor, without re
ward, but were at the same time almost de
nied the means of sabewteoce. tree, this is
some yean since; but so mock the worse for
that. it was at a time when the slaves were
less valuable than they are aow. a boot the
year 1784, previous to the introduction of the
cotton plant, so valueless were the slaves, that
their masters woe seriously thinking of set
ting them all at liberty, to rid themselves of
the burden of supporting then; and an the
scoundrels wished to starve their slaves.—
such is the heart of a slaveholder!
a man who has a good hone knows how
much thro heme in improved, and how much
move work he can ‘do, if he is well treated.—
one would therefore expect thro slaves would
bn well fed, when there work for them to
do. even this, however, is not always the
cans. as late as the year 1834, thomas
clay, esq., of georgia, speakiag of the quan
tity of the eon given to the slaves, say*—
“there is often a defect here rev. hor
ace moulton, at georgia—“ the food, at
‘food* of the slaves m generally of the poemol
kind.” but it is not needfel to go book even
mi fer as 1894, to find proof of this feet. we
horn it m competent authority—that of stave
hnidmn thmmafvri at the present day, thro
the average earn of feeding and nlotking a
negro, ia matam emit a day, will the new
yet* herald pretend that this it greatly at-
bht the feed is by m.mm tktwant part
ef it ssnfetisa of the slave. besides bang
31 fed, be m overworked. no farther proof
at this is smmi then the bet, (kit it is a
very rare thing to see a slave over fifty years
at age. in leonaim it was found, by the
agricultural society of baton rouge, that the
decrease of slaves on a “well regulated sugar
estate,” over and above the supply by props
gation, was two aj»d a half ri» cent.
even this, bad as it is, is not the worst of
this atrocious system. the cruelties to which
the slaves are subjected, are enough to make
one’s blood curdle with horror, and act the
whole soul on fire with indignation. two or
three instances will serve as a sample:
mieajah ricks, nash county, south car
olina, advertises as follows: run away,
negro woman and two children. a few days
before she went off, i burnt her with a hot
iron on the left arm. i tried to make the let
ter m.”
mr. wm. overstreet, lexington, 1848.
runaway, a negro man named henry am
itfl eye on/; some acars from a dirk on and
under his left arm, andmuch acaired with the
whip.”
mr. nicholas edmunds, 1838. —runaway
my negro man named simon. he has been
shot bully in his back and right arm.
sheriff of clinton co., mi., 1836.- —was
committed to jail a negro man says bis name
is josiah, his back very much scarred by the
whip, and branded on the thigh and hips jn
three or four places, thus—j. m. the rim
of his right ear has been bit or cut off.
mr. samuel mason, warren county, mi.,
1838. —runaway a negro man named allen.
he has a scar on his breast, also a scar under
the left eye, and has two buck shot in his right
arm.
mr. beyou, new orleans, 1838.—runaway
the mulatto wench mary has a scar on one
side of her cheek by a cut; some scars on her
back.”
these are a small sample, picked at ran
dom out of some two or three hundred.—
there are relations of cases of cruelty alto
gether too horrible to extract. indeed, it does
net seem possible that anything short of incar
nate devils could perpetrate atrocities that are
laid to the charge of the inhuman slaveholder.
here is one, a comparatively mild case:
a man named jones, living in virginia,
owned a slave who ran away. jones caught
him, and tied him up, and for two days, at
intervals, continued to flog him, and rub salt
into his mangled flesh, until his back was
literally cut up. the slave sunk under the
torture; and for some days it was supposed
he must die. he however slowly recovered,
though it was some weeks before be could
walk.”
add to all this, thqt slaves are often badly
housed, huddled together twelve and twenty
in small log huts, frequently without floors,
and subject to the deepest mental and moral
debasement, and you have a very imperfect
picture of what the n. y. herald says is not
to be compared with the condition of ireland
or any of the british dependencies.
that infamous paper further makes this
monstrous assertion:
the condition of the black race in our
southern states is, generally speaking, a con
dition of comfort. from the application of
the word, however, to the serfs in the old
world, who have been so long plundered, beg
gared and oppressed by a tyrant aristocracy,
it is supposed that the colored race in this land
are equally plundered, mal-treated, and
wretched. but such is not the case. if the
colored race were to receive their liberty to
morrow in the southern states, they would in
one year be reduced to a condition of barbari
ty, ignorance and want, such as st. domingo
now presents, and the british and french
west india islands will soon indicate,’.’ t
false, every word. false that the
tion of the black race is a condition of com
fort false that the colored race, as the previ
ous extracts show, are not equally—nay, they
are worse, infinitely worse, plundered, mal
treated and wretched,” than the serfs of the
old world false that the colored race in st.
domingo and the british and french west
india islands are being reduced to barbarity,
ignorance, and want; —all false; and the
falsehood of these statements is equalled only
by their brazen effrontery and malignity.
here is another bitter sentence. it would
mean something were it true, but as it is—
faugh!
“it will be quite time enough for british
journalists and british philanthropists to talk
to us of our institutions of slavery in the
south, when they can present a white race
under their sway, or even a semi-colored race
of indians, half as well off in comfort and
contentment as the slaves of carolina or vir
ginia.”
the hindoos, heaven knows, are badly
enough treated by their nabob maaters; hut
who can prove against them the branding,
shooting, cat-hauling, ear-clipping, and other
and less refined barbarities, that are practised
n south carolina and virginia no one
those cruelties are reserved for the liberty
lloving, equally-created” monsters of repub
ican lt makes one almost blush for
his kind to be under the necessity of produc
ing such witnesses against it; but the wick
edness of the wicked must be exposed, and
their deeds made manifest. verily the tender
mercies of the wicked are crash
one more sentence from the n. y. herald,
and i have done. it rays:
we cannot help mingling the tear with
the smile, when he [the writer in the times]
pats into ns so strongly in consequence of the
existence of slavery in certain parts of our
country, and places in juxtaposition with that
our ardent professions of liberty. we con
fess it—with sorrow, we confess that our in
stitutions have not yet reached that perfection
which we hope they will do with the progress
of time sod age.”
the sentence quoted above will serve to
throw considerable light upon this. “if the
colored race were to receive their liberty to
morrow, they would be ieduced to a condition
of barbarity, ignorance, and want,”
why then nungie the tear with the rank” 1
there eaa be no reason for it, except with re
fennee to the staten in which slavery has
been abolished. slavery in, then, a proper
condition of society. the prnfraaiiuia of lib*
etty are all a mistake. it is not desirable that
the slaves should be liberated aad the pro
gram to perfection” would he just so much
mischief dooe to the colored race! by how
little wisdom is the world isd! albeit, by
rrmrusshas tyranny sad avaricious
comtmrraidksts cannot nnnmui of the
traohle and annoyance of an illegibly written
commonlestioo. encode, do pity the printer,
mdwrile plainly mistakes, especially in
peeper names, ate quite unavoidable, unless
the ms. m dam sod distinct. vth. tap. tat
•fl**—#. a,
m. r. d., columbia, ps.—your letter has
to hsod.—s. aim the two previous
uttsrs about which you mquue.-j. o
negroes wanted.—persona having
slaves to sell, will hereafter find os to
rated at the extenwv* establishment formerly
owned by hope h. slitter. we hast per
chased hta enure possessions pi pratt street,
no 224. at which place all who hare slara
to sell will be sure to get the highest pnee
when the negroes are young and likely. thr
place now open to receive, on board, ne
grot* which are for sale, at twenty-fire cent*
per day. all communication will receive
prompt attention.
b. m. st w. l. campbell.
having retired from the business, i would
cheerfully recommend my friends and custom
ere to call at my old establishment to obtain
the highest price for their slaves.
hops h. slatte*.
for sale—two likely negro boys,
about fourteen yean of age. they are sold
for no faulta, the owner having no ua for
them. alao, a pew in st. peter’s chnrch.
rev. mr. atktnaon. apply to s. h. goll,
969 baltimore at.
these two advertise menu are from the bal
timore sun. it will be seen from the first,
that the notorious slatter has “sold out” but is
at heart as much as ever the slave-selling
scoundrel that he was. but let him pare.
he and all others like him, are the necessary
growth of the accursed system, and more de
serve our pity than our censure. the second
advertisement is particularly intereating. it
advertises for sale two different things which
are articles of trade in this christian
country—viz likely negro boys,” and “a
pew in st. peter’s church, rev. mr. atkin
son. a whole volume could not set down
more clearly the history of the united sutes
of america m the year 1848, than this little
paragraph. it gives to all future ages one of
those marked and prominent facts, that stand
out in strongjrelief, to be indellibly impressed
upon the memory. the reader of history
'will always remember this year as a time of
revolution and struggling for liberty in the
old world—and of selling church pews and
likely negro boys’’ in the new. with
whom will be his sympathies* will he ad
mire most the people who drive a detestable
and hell-invented trade in “slaves and souls of
men,” or the people who hurl the oppressor
from his scat of power, and proclaim the in
herent right of all men to liberty and self
government* oh, foolish people, who hath be
witched you, that you can suffer this horrible
iniquity to exist within your borders for a
single day your brother’s blood cries to
heaven against you. all your efforts cannot
wash the stain of his life from your guilty
hands, it is there, a damned spot that will
not out, and “all the perfumes of arabia can
not sweeten it.” “what are we to do,” you
ask. “do justly, and love mercy!” snatch
yourselves away from the sinner and his
crimes, and you will escape his punishment.
—j. d.
the new congress.—thus far, the
elections have resulted in the choice of 71
whigs and 53 democrats. these take the
place of 63 whigs and 61 democrats. whig
gain 16.
slavery in the district.—a bill to
abolish slavery in the district of columbia,
will it is said be offered in congress at an
early day, by thaddeus stevens, member
elect from pennsylvania.
glorying in their shame. —elated by
their recent viefories, state and national, the
whigs in various parts of the commonwealth
are kindling lionfires, firing cannon, illuminat
ing their dwelliags, mcarching in torchlight
processions, &c. sic. so nero fiddled while
rome was burning! in the jubilee which
they are holding at the elevation of another
man-stealer to the presidential chair,
the demons of the pit can readily participate.
alas |for our nation liberator.
positive facts.—the party which has
all the respectability certainly does con
tain some pretty intelligent voters, without
going to north carolina. ooe of them resides
in ward 11. when he heard some one at the
polls sing out, “three cheers for taylor,’ he
responded. “yes that’s the man for my vote.
1 always did think that tyler made a good
president, and i am going to vote for him to
day.” his knowledge of orthography did not
detect any mistake, and under the consoling
faith that he was voting for his old friend, the
accidental, he.voted for old zack.
but we have another case of still more af
fecting simplicity.
a| pious old man who resides in east bos
ton was congratulating his friends on the re
sult of the presidential election,“ what,” said
one of them,” did you vote for taylor ‘oh
yes,” said he, “i’ve hearn father taylor
preach a good many times in the bethel, and
when i saw him ndin’ on board the boat in
the water celebration, i told a man that he
would make a sight better president than mr.
cass or mr. butler. it makes me feel rather
glad to hear he’s elected.— chronotype.
very pious.—an orthodox clergyman in
norwich, it is said, wrote the following pray
er upon the back of a vote for the warrior and
slaveholder, taylor: 4 may god grant that
this vote, given with extreme reluctance and
many fears, may not contribute to perpetuate
the shame and crime of my beloved country,
nor bring upon her the curse of heaven.’ we
know not how this may strike others—to us it
seems simply impious. that the man voted
against his convictions of right, is clearly evi
dent from the language of his prayer-hut,
while performing this act of fealty to his
party at the expense of principle, he
asks god to take care of the country, by
counteracting the legitimate tendency of the
vote given. a man might as consistently
throw a lighted brand into his neighbor's hay
mow, praying god all the time that he won’t
let the poor fellow’b barn burn up* the folly
of such prayers is equalled only by their ira-
eiety —and the religion that can offer them,
owevprgood it may be for the next world,
is scarcely better than atheism for this.— char
ter oak.
ohio black laws.— a petition to the
legislature of ohio has been put in circulation
in that state, by the annual meeting of the
society of friends—those stedfast fnends of
the colored men, praying for the repeal of all
the laws which make civil distinctions be
iweedkhe white and colored citizens of state.
the movement aims at the repeal of those
disgraceful statutes known as the black laws,
though other good objects are contemplated.
perhaps the time for achieving such a result
has not yet arrived but that the good people
of ohio, and ut all other states, will see the
day when their unrighteous oppression of
men on account of their color will appear to
them as unworthy and ungenerous as to insuit
a fallen foe, or to chastise a wife, there is no
doubt. oppression is as much a mark of
meanness as of wickeduess. we certainly
hope this beneuulent impulse will not be in
vain.- n. y. evangelist,
newspapers by the ei ropean steam*
*m.—the postmaster general, johnson, has
ordered that newspapers for editors and news
papers sent as freight, shall not be charged
with united stales postage, and that they
■hall be delivered from the steamer without
passing through the post office. should he
mid, however, that the british government
pursues a contrary policy toward american
newpspere, he reserve* the right to retaliate.
the mormons, are about to issue a news
paper from their camp in the wilderness.
communications.
pulaourna, nev. 81, 1848.
fatotaica devolaaa: i have omitted
i giving you any intelligence from oet mam*
moth metropolis lor several weeks, owing to
pressing engagements. since yooreelf and
friend delany paid ua the timely visa, which
was as bread cast upon the waters,” we
have had the moat encouraging movements
going on. anti-slavery meetings upon anti-
slavery meetings have followed in quick ooe.
ruuton, with the boot of consequence*.
the north star asoociauon held its first
meeting, since its organization, on last thu re
day evening, at brick wesley church, and
was tolerably attended.
since m. r- delany left, wm. w. brown
psid ua a visit, and lent us a hand for a short
time. he is now in the eastern part of the
state, lecturing, in company with cyrus m.
burleigh, j. m. mckim, and others.
we are to have a state convention on the
13th of december, at harrisburgh, to make
arrangements to petition for the right of suf
frage. 1 have never before witnessed so fa
vorable a feeling among our people in regard
to the elective franchise as at present. the
people are at work in the matter. we re
ceived a circular a few days ago from pitts
burgh, calling upon the colored citizeife to
call county conventions, and appoint dele
gates to the state convention. accordingly,
the ciuaens of the city and county qf phila
delphia called a meeting, aud appointed ten
delegates, and are making arrangements to
collect funds to send them. the circular
contained two hundred and fifty-seven names,
from twenty-three counties.
our never-to-be-forgotten pro-alavery priest,
gloucester, still holds out against the friends
of the slave. his doors are still shut against
the advocates of the oppressed. a member
of his congregation was married a few days
ago in his church, when it was reported that
all who witnessed the marriage should pay
ten cents but in consequence of the parties
refusing to comply with said arrangement, it
was abandoned. as a matter of course that
was no desecration of the church!
yours in behalf of the downtrodden of our
country, g.
from our own correspondent.
london, nov. 8, 1848.
you are probably aware that the french
national assembly has decided that the elec
tion for president shall be by universal suf
frage, with this proviso, that unless the lead
ing candidate has a clear majoiity of twe
millions of vgtes over the rest, the national
assembly shall be at liberty to make its own
election. thus, for instance, should it hap
pen that prince louis napoleot^shouldhaves
majority of ono million above cavaignac, anc
again cavaignac one say of nine hundret
thousand above lamartine, the assemblj
would have the power of placing any one oi
the three in the presidential chair. the elec
election is to take place on sunday, the 10th
of december. there is little, doubt but thai
prince louis napolen will be at the head ol
the poll—there is less certainty that he will
obtain the absolute majority required, in
which case the choice of the assembly is sure
to fall on cavaignac. the french funds have
recently fallen. various causes are assigned
for this the most probable is, the declining
popularity of cavaignac, and the idea enter
tained by many of the friends of order, that,
with the departure of his ascendancy, that oi
all settled government will be simultaneous.
paris is moderately tranquil. a great female
demonstration took place there on the 2d oi
november, in behalf of the june insurgents.
seiious apprehensions were entertained, bui
it passed off peaceably. both trade and lit
erature in france are at a miserably low ebb
want of confidence causes the former to lan
guish-want of readers of aught but politics
prevents the publication of other than polilica
writings.
in austria, since my last, his imperia
majesty has appointed prince windisgrat;
generalissimo of his forces. the coun
amersperg and the ban of croatia, (th<
other imperial generals,) have cordially ac
quiesced in his supremacy, and with thei
forces have yelded him efficient co-operation
vienna has been invested by the three armies
the hungarian army, under kossuth, hai
ingloriously retreated, and, finally, vienn;
capitulated on the night of the 31st of oct
one of the insurgent generals has plundered
the treasury to a large amount, and escape*
with the proceeds. the emperor remains a
olncutz. in a circular he has recently ad
dressed to his respective ministers at the vari
ous courts of europe, he states that he hasn<
desire to reconquer the liberties of his peo
pie—that the constitution he has accorde*
them he will faithfully observe and that it i
but against the factious rabble of the capital
whose hands are stained with the blood o
his ministers, and sullied with nuraberles
atrocities, that he has directed the power o
his arms. it is a curious fact, that windis
grata, the bohemian prince, is the linaal de
scendent of wallenstein. he has behave*
with firmness and forbearance, especial!*
when we remember that a month or two since
both his wife and son were murdered by tin
insurgents of prague. berlin continues in i
most unsatisfactory state. the alarm of re
action is continually raised, yet no one is abl*
to indicate the quarter in which it lies. if it
the frequent brawls which occur in the streets
anybody happens to be lulled, a deputatioi
immediately conveys the bodies to ibe door
of the palace, where it leaves them. th*
inference is easy. the poor lung is supposei
to be the author of all the mischief. th*
central government scarcely gives signs o
life.
in england we are very quiet. publi
attention is much engrossed by the prospect
ive amalgamation of the three chief railwa;
companies—the great western, the londoi
and north-western, and the london an*
south-western. if parliament should eve
sanction their petition, there is every reaao*
to fear that the company will become a
enormously powerful, representing as it wij
forty-three millions of capital, that the pnbli
will have no security against the oppressive
fores which the respective constituent con
ptftiea have already evinced their inciinatioi
to adopt. the parliamentary stipulation*
which have, at various times, been mtro
duced with the acts by which they are tegv
laced, have been rendered almost of no avail
so many ways aw there of evading them.
i should think them are few pataom, no
actually railway shareholder*, who would no
®uch prefer tho absorption of the rano*
boea under a eentnliaed guenrnment manage
meat. private enterprise, whoa iacompeti
tiofi, and private eotoprire, when
with a gigantic monopoly, are aery difleree
thing*. 3. p. q. e.
from the bahut cwwridt
the free chnreh and ilwrery.
dear sit—have the goodness to give m
sertwo io vour journal to the aeeompaayinf
extiacta from the letter of the preabyteriar
church in america to the free chunk o
scotland, and an extract of the free churei
of scotland* reply to aaideommnmcmtion. ii
terns that the free church has now promised
“not to intrude” in futnre their opinions ami
sentiments upon the notice of the american
church regarding the sia of slavery. is it not
melancholy, mr. editor, that a christian
church in great britain should officially de
clare that because sinners are offended at be
ing told of their fault, and that in language
moat mild and gentle, the free church mil
not reprove them again, oo the contrary con
tinue to hold fellowship with a professing
church of christ who admit to the lord’s table
men stealers, cradle plunderers, and women
whippers. i am happy to state that the free
church anti-slaycry society has peotested
against the free church’s letter to their breth
ren in america. observe that the free
church anti-slavery society is composed of
members of tlie free church only, none others
being admitted, and it is to be hoped that their
exertions to purify their chureb will in doe
time prove successful.
we read in olden time that the prophets
were told to cry aloud and spare not, and
llhaa who did not reprove sinners for their
iniquities were held guilty of the blood of
their brethren. bat alas! in the nineteenth
century of christianity, ministers hf the gos
pel (of him who preached deliverance to the
captive, and to loosen those held in bonds,)
gravely say that in future they they will not
mention the sin of slaveholding to a church
stained with what the veneiable wesley
called the sum and substance of all human vil
lainy. thank god there is now a free syn
od of presbyterians in america, composed of
presbyteries who have come out from the new
and old organizations of the american church
es, giving as their reason for doing so, that
they despaired of those bodies excluding
slaveholders from their communion a ler
ter from the free synod of the presbyterian
church in america was recevied and read at
the last meeting of the general assembly in
this town, to which no doubt a suitable reply
has been sent. i understand that a deputa
tion is about proceeding to the united states
of america, to solicit subscriptions in aid of
the funds of the home mission of the pres
byterian church in ireland. i hope the dele
gates will not visit the slave states to look
for subscriptions; indeed, they would get
none if they prove faithful, and hot sit down
in fellowship with men stealers.
i am, dear sir, very truly yours,"
james standfield.
belfast, 3d nov. 1848.
ext rad of a letter from the presbyterian
church of america to the free church of
scotland on slavery.
richmond, virginia, 26 th may, 1847.
your letter is chiefly occupied with your
opinions and views of the system of slavery in
these united states, and remarks on what you
conceive to be our duty, in relation to that
great subject, both as members of the church
and citizens of the state. as we do not deem
furthft communications, on our part, on this
subject, necessary, we refer you to our pre
vious letters, and to our letter to the general
assembly of the presbyterian church in ire
land, a copy of which, we herewith enclose
you in our minutes for 1846.—8 y reference
to these documents, you will be put in poe
seession of the sober, and concientious, and
scriptural views entertained by our body, and
learn our true position in relation to slavery—
a position which we have always occupied,
and shall continue to occupy in time to come.
we beg that you will repose confidence in us,
and having perfect understanding of the sub
ject in all its bearings and relations, that you
will leave us to discharge the duties which
rest upon us in view of it, praying that in all
things we may be guided by wisdom from on
high.
extract from the reply of the free church of
scotland.
we have received the communication from
your assembly dated richmond, virginia,
26th may, 1847, and we desire to express to
you the cordial satisfaction with which we
hear of your continued prosperity, as a church
of christ, and your abundant labours in his
cause, both in your own and other lands. on
the subject which has occupied a prominent
place in our correspondence hitherto, namely,
the system of slavery in the united states, and
what we conceive to be your duty in relation
to it, you refer us to your previous letters, as
well as to one addressed by you to the pres
byterian church of ireland, and yon beg that
we will repose confidence in you, and having
perfect understanding of the subject, in all its
bearings and relationsjthat we will leave you
to discharge the duties which rest upon you in
view of it. we shall not of course, after
such an expression of your wishes, continue
to intrude our opinions and sentiments upon
your notice.
liberia.—a london letter of the 3d
instant, in the new york commercial adver
tiser, says
your readers will probably be aware that
presideut roberts, of liberia, arrived in eng
land about six weeks back, to. negociate a
commercial treaty, and also a recognition of
his republic. he has fully succeeded in his
mission, and will speedily return direct to
africa. he has also been to paris, and has
there likewise obtained a recognition. his
visit will probably cause considerable atten
tion to be directed to liberia, especially in
connection with th? suppression of the slave
trade.
a black representative.—at the sit
ting of the national assembly of france, on
friday last, a considerable movement took
place in the chamber, in consequence of the
appearance of m. mainline, whoa^admission
was lately pronounced fer the colff} of mar
tinique. the representative, who is of the
very blackest hue, walked up to the extreme
end of the chamber, and took his aeai im
mediately under the clock. his features
were then visible, and presented to view the
true negro type. the movement through the
chamber continued to increase, and arrived at
its highest pitch when the new comer coolly
drew out an eye-glass, and proceeded to
leisurely examine the different parts of the
assembly. it was some moments before the
president could procure sufficient attention to
allow the' discussion on the constitution to
prooesd.
another decision giving liberty to a
slave brought into this state by his master,
was pronoenced hy judge hodges of wash
ington co. on the bth inst. the master was
a renegade northerner who moved from penn
sylvania to ky t sod there became a slave
holder, and on a visit to his friends in his mate
brought with him one of his chatties to wait
upon bin wife. as the woman preferred free
dom and self-support to the care' of her nat
ter he will return minus one human chattel.
the patriarchs will probably grow cautions of
bringing their happy and contented bandmm
where they can choose for thsnisnlrmlist nets
liberty »ed riarety.— pm*. fvnun.
there are three crimes in ramin, for
the i omiajssiim of which the guilty party it
severely punished, via: gambling, drunken
ness, mod reading fesi* ’—exchange.
we 4eu*t knew bat that a little of tho pun
ishment for the inner offense would he of
advantage how—«»lent fer reek hooka ao are
moody rood*the pteoont day.— boston bee.
slavreretaaxs i» rare fm trutmt.
—we mirmui that iw» d kamds at ihi«-
hhw am preparing immr mto cehforma
h
philadelphia republic sejs:
the slaveholders know «ht (hn am
about. that deadly raairisim. to the proviso
not aa abstraction, aad accredisgly wo find
themorgremaf coforeratioa wooieam far dm
my pgpoae of occupying dm ground aad
anayiag thou forest oa the spot for dm
earbesl and meat desperate efforts to extend
tbeit system into dm new country. it ia to bo
occupied aa texaa vaa aad far the aame por-
c. all they waat ia torn to crowd the
with their three- the inrmioo
ready arranged, aad while the north is dehat
tag whether the pnmao ia nnnraanj aad
whether tayloi will veto it, the propagandists
are busy nathug forward their ~»frmoa en
terprise. it ia not a aoo-oomantu]. unpledged
president that will arrest the mischief. delay
derisive legislative action as long as the ore
gon bill was hanging in congress, and the
question will be one of abototioa of slavery,
which, by that tune will have usurped the
ground, aad planted itself upon the right of
pnwereiuu. actual, absolute,
prohibition—the wilmot proviso now, ia the
only security; every pretence and profession
that delays the decision is a cheat. the an
nexation of texas was accomplished by
stealth. when adams and gates and one or
two other members of congress first warned
the country of the design, it seemed so impos
sible that it waa unheeded, but within a year
or two from the time whan the purpose was
demonstrated the scheme had triumphed over
all obstacles, and the iniquity was coaaum
laated.”
anti-slaverx at the south.—we un
derstand that a new weekly paper of the anti
slavery stripe is in contemplation at the city
of washington. the plan is to make a large
sheet and put it at the low pries of $1 a year.
at the same time, it ia believed, the enterprise
will be under auspices to insure it permanence
and complete success. it must be the inten
tion of the parties interested, we judge, to
give the new mouth-piece a somewhat snore
searching and distinctive character on ques
tions of reform generally than is maintained
by the national era which at present repre
sents the abolition interest of the county at
the seat of government. we wish the south
much joy at the advance of the northern
lights towards their meridian.— n. y. tri
bune.
a trance of fifteen years.—a young
woman, named ann comer, farrington,
devon, has remained in a decided state of un
consciousness for the past fifteen years. it is
thought by many that she is in “a trance.”
her mother assured the writer that for eleven
years she had not partaken of the least par
ticle of food. she is certainly in bed, has a
placid smile, and, though possessing vitality,
has no consciousness of the approach of any
party, neither can she distinguish any object.
she has been visited by some of the most
eminent in the medical profession; and others,
since her case has been made known, have
called to witness what might be justly termed
this phenomenon in nature. medical times.
cincinnati as it is—the cincinnati com
mercial says; a gentleman of intelligence
and observation, has been analyzing the con
glomerate ingredients which form this great
city. he says we have about sixty churches,
large and small, three theatres, five market
places, four hundred and eighty places where
liquors are sold by the drink,no public square
or park, (except carpet-cleaners green,) 28,-
000 moral and church-going people, as many
more respectable people who go but do not
belong to church, and about half as many
more who won't go—the balance being pro
miscuous, made up of all sorts, characters,
casts and colors. our population within the
valley, he estimates at 120,000, and mourns
that all this mighty mass live in the fearful
risk of having their neeks broken over our
rough pavements.
stampede frustrated.—we ream that
about forty negroes bad made arrangements to
leave their masters in woodford county, in
this state, on saturday night last, but the
plot was discovered just in time to defeat its
execution. the negroes all had free passes.
according to the plan of operations, each was
to steal a horse and cross the river before day.
they were betrayed by a negro to whom the
plot was disclosed, and who was requested to
join in it. the negroes stated that two or
three white men who had been in the neigh
borhood some days, furnished them free pass
es. these men got an intimation of the dis
covery of the plot, and made their escape.—
lexington atlas.
a --.—l ren-
british anti-state church associa
tion.—resolutionn adopted that this meet
ing, having a profound conviction of the evils
resulting from legislation by civil governments
in matters of religion, rejoice in the evident
tendency of public events, both in this count
ry, and on the continent, to hasten the down
fall of state ecclesiastical establishments.—
nonconfomist.
travel in western new york.—the
amount of travel in western new york is al
most incredible. the mirror’ says
at syracuse one thousand persons night
ly arrive, remain to breakfast, and are off by
half past six. in one hour after another
breakfast is prepared at these hotels for ano
ther thousand, and yet a third thousand take
a later breakfast. at the syracuse hotel
over six hundred persons took breakfast one
morning last week, and probably as many at
the empire house, to say nothing of four or
five other hotels, all of which seem to be
doing a good business.”
a new york paper states that there
are at present two hundred am] fifty-nine
prisoners confined in the tombs. of these
two hundred are whites aud sixteen‘blacks.
there is just double the number of men that
there is women.
itp an exchange declares solemnly, and
threatens to repeat it, a thousand times,- that
one pound of lean, tender, juicy mutton
can be produced for half the coat of the samr
quantity of fat pork; and that it ia infinitely
healthier fired.” sooie troth in it.
love and marriage. never marry but
for love, says william penn in his reflection!
and but see that thou lovest what
is lovely/*
there in a pear tree in illinois, 40 yean
old* which measures about the trunk ten feet
in 1834 it bore 183 bushels of fruit, sod 1841
it bore 140 bushels.
the new york evening post ssys the coal
of cigars, smoked ia that city every day n
$lo,ooo.
sasbath observance. —the proprietors o
many of the german newspapers have deter
mined not to publish their journals
dsv in order to allow their workman faff 1*
ar^totoeihhesahath-
innocsnce. —a dutchman in albany, aon
time back, went out to hi* milkman in the
treat with a «reh fared,. reared^
nrilk asked if ha wished him to fill boll
vemels the dutchman replied suitiog the
to the word, dis is for do mubsk sm
die for da warier an* i tafll mix’s* so re u
share myself.
iwmch faces.—ws do not govern them hj
ojusk davaa, bat by their own whm
-uv«we know what we sre doing wi
hßteeomoeredyoo ones, aad we esaagain—
—j lzi net by mesas of ore extra re
drsomretivos oo aewret of our slaves, bat in
%£sofwhhc stone,alt africa* king.
within these rampart*, on a wooden
bench, from which the sound, spotted
with the white mill of many ships,—
am), faintly, the distant mountains ol
sweden, might be seen, two black men
•at. removed at a distance of twenty
yards from them, four sentinels stood,
resting carelessly with folded arms, on
the muzzles of their fire-locks, hut,
even in this negligence, paying much
attention the movements of these black
men. we stopped and observed the
strange group and our sympathy was
moved by the dress and demeanor of
of the two incn. the one nearest to
us, who appeared the eldest, rested his
cb.in on the back of his hands, which
were clasped round the top of a large
walking-stick and in that attitnde kepi
his eyes fixed on the blue waters of the
sound his thoughts, no doubt, wan
dering to his home, some pleasant spot,
far away. his hat was brown by long
use, and rent at the rims, beneath whict
his white h&ir, here and there, strag
gled forth. his coat, once black wai
now threadbare and worn at the
elbows and his shoes, almost with
out soles, kept sad unison with the
i other parts of bis dress.
the other old roan, whose clothei
were equally squalid, sat more upright
and seemed livelier, and of a lightei
heart, misfortune not having ye
touched so blightingly the natural vol
atility of his disposition for, now ant
then, he spoke in low tones to his com
panion, who sometimes smiled, bu
rare! i made auswer.
j 4 you are observing those blacl
men said the spanish minister. thej
are the most interesting objects in co
penhagen.’
4 who are they r* we asked.
‘those two men,’ continued thi
j spaniard.’ were once men of note ii
j their own country; and their misfortun<
resolve* itself into this simple tale
the men with grey hair, nearest to us
l seemingly bent with excess of sorrow
was the king of some danish colony ii
j the east indies and the other, hi
favorite minister. after having reignei
for many years with equity and wisdom
and having seen his little island, era
died in the lap of peace, put forth tb
strength of prosperity, the old mon
arch’s bright day of happiness am
glory was suddenly overshadowed by i
cloud, which, though by its insignifi
cance, at first unobserved, gradual!;
gained bulk and darkness, and replete
at last, with all the elements of storr
and destruction, burst übon his head
a man murdered a woman, his wife
and according to the criminal code c
his country, was arrested, tried, an<
convicted and this king, by the advio
of his minister, ordered the assassin t<
be executed. the intelligence reachei
the ears of the court of denmark, am
by command of christian, the blacl
monarch and his adviser were arrested
on the plea, that, the one being, thougl
a monarch, a subject of denmark, ha
ino power to carry the statutes of hi
own realm summarily into effect, with
out the previous assent of the danis
government and that the other, beln
the principal minister, was as culpabl
as his master in permitting such an in
fringement of the jaw. they wer
both subsequently tried for the offeucc
and being found guilty, were placed o
board a danish ship of war, and brougl;
to copenhagen, where, within thi
fortress, they are doomed to pass, i
solitary confinement, the small portio
of life which may yet remain to them
they are allowed, as you see occasion
ally to leave their prisons, and wal
here for exercise but even that indul
gence must enhance the misery of tbei
condition'; for who could feci the de
lightful warmth of to-day, breath
its mild, soft air, and look on such
landscape as this, and not sigh to re
visit a dungeon v
t 4 sic transit gloria mumii.’
exemplification of instinct
the similarity between the simpli
instinctive actions of animals and thei
ordinary organic functions, is so grea
as to lead us to suppose that both set
of operations are arranged upon simi
lar plans, though these may not b<
identical, and that both are carried 01
without the forethought or the con
sciousness of the animal. thus tin
young bee, on the day when it firs
leaves the cell, without teaching am
without experience, begins to collec
honey and form wax, and build an its
hexagonal cell, according to the lorn
which its progenitors have used fron
the earliest generations. birds built
nests of a certain structure after thei
kinds, and many species, at certaii
seasons, excited by some internal im
pulse, take their migratory flight t<
other countries. the insect whicl
never experienced a parent’s care or i
mother’s exantole, labors assiduously
i and effectively for the future develop
1 ment and sustenance of an oflfsprin{
which it, iu its turn, is doomed oevei
to behold. others toil all summer ant
lay up stores for winter, without evei
having experienced the severity of sue!
a season, or being in any sensible way
aware of its approach.
we know that such actions are th<
result of involuntary and unreflecting
impulses, because we often find then
performed in vain. sir joseph bauki
had a tame beaver, which was allowet
to range at liberty in a ditch about hit
grounds, and which was at all seasom
liberally supplied with food. ons day
about the end of autumn, it was discov<
ered in a ditch, very busily engaged ic
attempting to construct a dam, aftei
the manner of its companions in a state
of nature. this was evidently the
blind impulse of its instinctive feelings,
for a moment's exercise of tbe lowest
degree of reason must have shown it
•hat such labor, under tbe circum
stances in which it was placed, was al
together superfluous. a common quail
was kept in a cage, and became quite
tamed and reconciled to as food. al
the period of its natural migration, it
became exceedingly restless and sleep
teea; it beat iu head against the cage
in many vain efforts to escape, and on
examination its skin was found several
degrees above its usual temperature.—
a bee, which can ayr homeward one or
two mile* in a straight lioa to us hive,
with extreme accuracy, if it happens to
enter u open wiadew m a room, will
ealmnat ell its efforts in attempting to
get out at tbe opposite window, which is
closed down, but octet pauses to think
of retracing its flight a little way back
ward, so as to fly out at the opening at
which it bad entered.
we often observe a dog, when going
to sleep on the floor, tarn himself sev
eral times round before be lies down,
and this is just one of tbe lingering in
stincts which be has retained; while in
bis wild state he is accustomed thus to
prepare his bed amid the ull grass or
rushes. an scute observer of animal
habits, has remarked that a jackdaw,
which, for want of ita usual place of
abode, had for its nest made choice of
a rabbit hole,was often iorely perplexed
in what way to get the long sticks, of
which its nest was to be formed, drawn
within the narrow entrance. again and
again did it attempt to pull in the piece
of stick, while it held it by the middle
in us bill, end it was only after a series
of vain efforts that, by mere chance, it
at last accomplished its object, by hap*
pening to seize it near one end instead
of the centre. in this case it appeared
to the observer that the building in
stincts of this bird were complete and
perfect within a certain range, but with
out the limit of this circle it had no de
liberative foresight to guide its actions.
—british quarterly.
remarkable antiquities of
new mexico.
among the valuable publications o
the u. s. senate at the last session, ii
lieut. abort’s report of his topograph
ical examination of new mexico. lt
a. explored the country in the yean
1816 and ’47, with a detachment of the
topographical corps, by order of th«
government, and his report reveals the
existence of the remains of a similai
civilized race that has disappeared. it
the language of a distinguished anti
quary, it enables us fully to identify
the “kingdom of cibola,” visited bj
castenada, the chronicler of corona
do’s expedition sent northward by vice
roy mendoza, in 1540—’42.
some of the towns visited by lieut
abert still bear the names by which
they were known in the sixteenth cen
tury, and the inhabitants, in manners,
mode of building, &c., have undergone
a scarcely perceptible change from that
period. the town of acoma, visitec
by lieut. abert, probably dates back
beyond the conquest, and was one ol
the “seven cities” of castenada. it ii
situated upon a rock, inaccessible ex
cept by a narrow, and, in part, artificia
passage. the buildings are three anc
four stories high, with no entrances
from the ground. the stairs recede at
as to leave terraces in front, which are
reached by moveable ladders. the
openings into the interior are through
the roof. in case of attdek the ladder!
are withdrawn, and buildings, fifty oi
sixty of which compose a block oi
square, are immediately converted into
an almost impregnable fortress. on<
of the edifices, the peublo de tacs,’
has successfully resisted all the attack!
of the wild indians and the spaniards
it is seven stories high. it was re
duced by the american forces, janua
ry, 1847, by a long aod bloody siege.
tbe ruins ol ancient buildings, anc
the traces of a remote population, an
numerous upon the river gila. thej
differ in many respects from those o
new mexico. their existence hai
1 long been known, and has been sup
posed to lend a sanction to the tradi
tionary migrations of the aztecs, b)
1 whom it is conjectured they were built.
those which are standing are com
posed of clans, and are several stories
in height.
upon the gila, lieut. emory founc
two singular semi-civilized aboriginal
tribes. they'are the pimos and cucc
maricopas. they cultivate the soil,
irrigating it by numerous canals, and
live upon the most friendly teims with
each other. they are honest, indus
trious, brave, but peaceable, aud in all
respect afford a striking contrast to the
roving apaches, who occupy the coun
try to the northwestward. lieutenant
emory heard of similar tribes in the
territory above the gila, between the
pimos and the navajes, which are
probably the same with the moqu cl
humboldt. one of these, the soonies,
are represented to be further advanced
in civilization than the pimos. it is
also said that they reside in caverns cut
in the rocks—suggesting at once the
seven caves’* from which the aztecs
claimed that their ancestors migrated.
although the remains found on the
gila possessed few features in common
with the structures erected by the mex
icans, and are certainly not beyond the
capabilities of the present or ancient
indians of new mexico, they still attest
the former existence here of a popula
tion differing from the pimos at least in
the construction of their edifices, and
which may have migrated southward or
disappeared under the attacks of hos
tile neighbors. they certainly tend to
confirm the aztec tradition, and invest
their unknown nations to the northward
with«ne* interest. a knowledge of the
true character of these nations is a
great desideratum.
life in the citt.
a few days ago an old man died who
had been a daily walker in these streets
for many years. his face was familiar
in wall street, and if any one would be
missed from amoug us, his must have
been. for weeks he had lain at tbe
point of death, and at length the voice
came and he obeyed. his physician
had forbidden the visits of ffientm, and
none knew bow unwell he was. it was
toward morning, after a night of calm
neaa, that his pulse grew suddenly more
aod more feeble, his face pallid, his eye
dim and dull, and they knew that he
was passiog away. there were none
witk him but a wife, tbe companion of
two-ecore years, a daughter and the
nurse. none might say whither bis
thoughts wandered in that last hour of
earthly struggle perhaps to scenes
long nnvisited of vouth’s joys, of boy
ish affections and pleasures. there
waa a sound of revelry in the street,
and the weary watcher looked through
the dosed blinds, and saw the last car
riage passing away from a gay scans
in the house opposite. little dreamed
tbs oocupanie of that carnage, that the
dim light in the window which ebons
on them, shone also on the paling check
of mortality. the daughter turned
■gilt to the falhir's aide. tbt roar of
carriages. and can. mml fmai, in-
cto—i as men evoke to labor. the
sick fean tamed tootlemljr. the soands
of the city nungled harshly hi hie
dreams. anon the voices of men under
the windows, the eriee of hawkers, the
swift passing ot henry stages, disturbed
him. end fell unpleasantly on the eon
of the watchers, who longed only for
sympathy—a commodity very scarce in
this great metropolis. and as the
sounds grew more and more confused
and load, and the city was foil of busy,
working, noisy life, in the nidd of its
thousand tones of labor and pleasure,
of mirth and grief, the old man's ears
grew heavy, and he heard them no
longer. in the country, there would
have, been silence even in the houses,
and stillness in all hearts, when an old
man or child was dying. but all, even
neighbors, were astonished to bear that
mr. was dead, and he-is already
forgotten by all but his near friends.—
jowr. com.
laud monopoly.
it is a great curse to the western
reserver that thousands upon thousands
of acres of the best land are held by
i non-resident nabobs, who got them for
i almost nothing, and now ask two prices
for them. these lands have been en
hanced in a value of contiguous settle
ments and improvements, as roads,
meeting-houses, school-houses, and
j good neighborhoods, at the same time
j they have stood directly in the way o.
improvement. it is safe to say, that all
other impediments met with in the set
tlement of this country have not equalled
that of lands belonging to non-residents.
francis granger is one of these land
monopolists, and when he was pleading
the cause of the south here the other
day, we could not help but think that
he and his family had injured this com
munity more than all the generations
of grangers to come after them could
repair, if they should be useful work
ing men, which is not likely. francis
granger is an aristocrat—a landed ar
istocrat, and he has been made so by
land monopoly. but for this be would
been a working man, and useful accord
ing to his gifts—that is to say, moder
ately so. other aristocrats have been
made in the same way, and thousands
more will be made, unless a speedy
stop is put to this monopoly of god’s
free earth.
had the principle of land limitation
been made effective at the time of the
adoption of the federal constitution,
who does not see that it would have re
sulted in unmistakable blessings to our
country? those purse-proud, useless
aristocrats, who have subsisted and do
now subsist upon the toil and enterprise
of free laborers, would themselves have
been useful working neighbors of soci
ety. the thousands of acres of wild
erness, of which our own county fur
nishes an example, would have been
converted into pleasant homes for free
men. yea, the cause of a free, and
pure, and high-reaching democracy
would have been greatiy benefited
thereby.
who doubts the propriety—nay, tht
necessity of land limitation? if any
then they are those who hope to builc
up fortunes by speculating in soil whicl:
is only known to them by the descrip
tions in their title-deeds, or those whe
having eyes see not, and having ability
forjudging, judge not.
the question is soon to be agitated
to an extent little dreamed of by land
speculators and monopolists, and it will
result in the triumph of limitation. oui
country at large demands this result,
and the interests of every individual,
except our landed lords, demand it.—
we go for it first, last, and forever.—
cleveland (o.) free dem.
a short sermon. —perhaps it may
not be amiss to remember the printer
in my discourse. he is in a very disa
greeable situation. he trusts every
body—he knows not whom; his money
is scattered everywhere, and he hardly
knows where to look for it. his paper,
his ink, his type, his journeymen’s la
bor, his living, etc., must be punctual
ly paid for. you mr. and mr.
and a hundred others i could
name, have taken his paper, and you
and your children, and your neighbors
have been amused and informed, and i
hope improved by it; if you miss one
paper, you would think very hard of the
printer; you would rather go without
your best meal than to be deprived of
your newspaper. have you ever com
plied with the terms of your subscrip
tion? have you taken as much pains
to furnish the printer with his money as
he has to furnish you with his paper?—
have you paid him for his type, his
press, his band work, his head work?
if you have not, go and pay him off.—
oo*, jr.
emigrants. nearly 17,000 emi
grants from foreign countries arrived at
the port of new york during the month
of august last, apportioned nationally
as follows: from germany, 5,480; ire
land, 6,661; england, 2.685; scotland,
457; wales, 196; france, 154; spain,
20; switzerland, 352; holland, 19;
norway, 553; west indies, 119; all
othere, 116: total, 16,825. the ger
mans' swiss aod norwegians generally
bring enough money with them to buy
a comfortable farm, and accordingly
they leave the city at oqce on their ar
rival to seek it. the english, irish
aod scotch, on the contrary, stay here,
aod are fleeced and shaved in a thou
sand ways. the emigrant who has lit
'd® mooe y in his possession, should nev
er stop in the city, but should push ftp-
waw 1q to the interior immediately. to
rtay here, is ruia in nine cases out of
ten. the yearly increase in emigra
tion from january, 1644 to august,
1448, is 80,069. j 8
how to live lose.—a venerable
minister, who bad preached some 67
years in the same place, being asked
*”f w **the secret of loog life, replied,
live temperate, work hard
“d keep cheerful. another person,
who lived to the great age of 109 years,
reply to the inquiry, how.be
ll*? “s’" "i km,
wnd and oblgmg; have never quarrelled
have and