extracts
fkuh the speech of thomas j. mlmford, in
on tlu suffrage question.
i advocate the enfranchisement of
our colored fellow-citizens, because i
believe it to be a measure prompted by
the spirit of the christian religion, and
required by die first principle of demo
cratic institutions.
that all men are descended from
common parents, is equally the dictate
of reason and revelation. whoever
considers the substantial similarity of
mental, moral and physical constitu
tion among his fellow-men, notwith
standing the almost infinite variety of
feature and complexion, must believe in
the unity of the human race. who
ever has read the bible, is aware that
it teaches that adam was the ancestor
of all the vast multitudes of human be
ings who now throng the earth, wher
ever they may dwell, and whatever may
be their complexions. he must also
know that the new testament reiter
ates that god made of one blood all
the nations of the earth.”
if then the colored man is, like us,
composed of an organized body and a
rational boul, a creature endowed with
reason and free will—if, like us, he is
elevated by noble aspirations, and de
based by carnal propensities—if, like
us, he is physically allied to the brute
and spiritually akin- to god—if he has
the same father in heaven, and adam
and noah were his and our fathers
upon earth, then our rights and respon
sibilities, our hopes and our fears, our
earthly duties and our immortal desti
nies are the same. he is our brother
and our neighbor, and companion in
time and in eternity.
whoever believes in the doctrine of
christianity, will go to the teachings of
jesu9 christ for his rule of conduct
towards his fellow-men. in seven brief
words he uttered a sublime precept,
which, when faithfully applied, will ena
ble us to decide every question of duty
towards our brethren. he taught us
to love our neighbors as ourselves; and
he did not say, love thy white neigh
bor, but thy neighbor, without any
qualification of complexion or race.—
to understand this injunction, we
should consider how we love ourselves.
do we love life, liberty and the pursuit
of happiness then we should love to
witness our neighbors in the enjoyment
of their inalienable rights. do we love
to enjoy the right of choosing the men
by whom the laws are made and admin
istered? then we should love to wit
ness our neighbors, whatever may be
their complexion, enjoying the same
privilege. are we painfully sensible of
any deprivation of our rights, whether
natural or political? then, unless we
shrink from the constant application of
he golden rule, we should be ready to
assist our colored neighbor in his at
tempts to regain the elective fran
chise.
ah men possess by nature the right
ol self-government; and upon the pre
sumption of this right are based all our
»deas of human responsibility. politi
cal society is but a modification of
natural society.' and when men enter it,
they do not consent to surrender the
right of self-government, but merely
exchange it for the kindred political or
adventitious right of participating in the
government of the society. without
tnia participation, all their rights are
insecure. i admit that it is absolutely
necessary for the general welfare of
the community that certain restrictions
should be imposed upon the enjoyment
tbfc* right, but they mast be reasons
the north star.
ble, equal and just. the role for the
exclusion of minors is of this nature.
the minds of that class of persons are
immature, and it is universally admitted
that it is better for them and for society
that their exercise of the elective fran
chise should be postponed. it is equal,
because the duration of minority is the
same, whenever and wherever the
minor may be. that a man should not
participate in the government of a
country of which he is not a citizen, is
another rule reasonable and just, and
equal in its operation. but that a man,
merely because his complexion is dark,
or because he belongs to a particular
race, should be excluded from the right
and privilege of choosing his rulers, is
a principle palpably unreasonable, une
qual and unjust. for as it is the height
of folly to receive one proposition and
reject anuthcr, with*au —ast
umm real difference oetween them, so
it is eminently absurd to admit one man
to the enjoyment of this right and ex
clude another differing from him in
none of the essential qualifications of a
voter.
1 advocate their enfranchisement, be
cause they are americans. they are
not aliens—not africans; but native
americans. they are not strangers to
us and to our institutions. they were
among the earliest settlers of western
new york. long before our pleasant
streams were studded with flourishing
mills and factories, when the necessa
ries of life were obtained with difficulty,
enduring every danger and privation
incident to the settler’s life, they as
sisted in preparing a path in these
western wilds for the onward march of
civilization. while i abominate the
principles of native americanism, and
am content with the present naturaliza
tion laws, if they are faithfully admin
istered; and while i am aware that
hundreds of our adopted citizens are
men of sterling merit, of whom any
country might well be proud, i know it
to be a fact, plain, palpable and unde
niable as the existence of the sun in the
heavens, that a vast number of our im
migrants are taken from the very dregs
of european population that they
come here with minds deeply imbued
with the superstitions and prejudices or
the old world, ignorant not only of our
constitution and laws, but even of our
language, and totally unacquainted with
the nature and operations of our insti
tutions. is it reasonable, just or equal,
that the foreigner, whatever may be his
ignorance, his prejudices, or his crimes,
should in five years be invested with
every privilege of citizenship, and that
native americans, guilty of no crime
hut their complexions, whatever may
he their intelligence, their virtue, or
their patriotism, should be deprived of
the right of suffrage
i advocate their enfranchisement, be
cause we have grievously wronged
them, and it would be a partial atone
ment for past injuries. any one ac
quainted with the history of the two
races in this country, is aware that we
have uniformly oppressed them; and
that justice calls in trumpet tones for
restitution. what better beginning can
we make than the restoration of this
inestimable right?
i advocate their enfranchisement, be
cause gratitude requires it at our
hands. they have ever been loyal
and patriotic. they participated in all
the arduous struggles of the revolu
tion, and coutributed in no slight de
gree to many of the most brilliant vic
tories by which our independence was
achieved. several states enlisted col
ored regiments, who fought with bra- j
very and skill. colored men were at
lexington and bunker hill—at sara
toga and yorktown. indeed, there is
not a battle-field from maine to geor
gia, that has not been crimsoned with
their blood and whitened by their bones.
and shall we longer deny them a par
ticipation in the fruits of the conflict
in the last war, they shared the dan
gers and hardships of the field. in
1814, a bill accepting the services of
2,000 colored volunteers passed the
legislatnre of new york. they were
not liable to be drafied; they could not
have been compelled to go; but they
went voluntarily and they went not
to defend a country which had protected
them in the enjoyment of their rights,
but one which had permitted them to
be grievously wronged. with unpar
alleled magnanimity, they forgave eve
ry injury, and animated by the purest
patriotism, fought valiantly in defence
of their native land. in the battle of
lake erie, commodore perry's fleet;
was chiefly manned by colored seamen.
many black sailors served under com.
m’donough, when he conquered on
lake champlain. many were in the
battle of plattsburgh and sackets har
bor. gen. jackson called out colored
troops in louisiana and alabama, and
in a solemn proclamation attested their
fidelity and courage.
they desire it. they have held sev
eral conventions, the proceedings of
which were conducted with great de
corum —have issued eloquent appeals
to the sense of justice in their white
brethren, and are now anxiously wait
ing the result of the election.
it will benefit them. by tending to
their elevation, and by adding to their
self-respect. it will procure them more
courtesy and sympathy from their su
periors, diffuse among them a common
confidence and interest in the govern
ment awaken a desire to examine and
debate all public proceedings, and thus
nourish a lively curiosity to acquire
knowledge, and at the same time fur
nish the means of gratifying u. the
debates of the legislature, the conduct
of public oflkers, the contests of par
ties, the great public measures, and the
agitating questions of the day, will be
canvassed by them, and their minds
will be vastly stored and strengthened.
right is of no sex—truth is of no color—god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
it will produce no bad effect. their
number* ere few. they compoee only
one-fiftieth of oar population, and are
therefore unable to form any dangerous
combinations. they now enjoy the
elective franchise in massachusetts,
rhode (stand and vermont, states pro
minent for the virtue and intelligence of
their citizens, and the security of life
and property.
it is often said that the great mass
of colored men are degraded, and
therefore they should be deprived of
this privilege. now if there be any
force in this argument, it must be baaed
upon the principle, that whoever is de
graded should be excluded from the
right of voting. if this be admitted, as
it must be by those who talk of exclu
sion on aeeooofof degradation, and it
graded, then course it follows that
they should be excluded. but may not
retiring else be made to follow from
principle? if whoever is degraded
should not be a voter, what is to become
of the 50,000 degraded white men in
the state of new york? by the same
argument they should of coarse be ex
cluded.
but while i deny that all the blacks,
or even a majority of them are de
graded, i insist that this degradation is
the result of our cruelty, and that it is
unjust, unreasonable, and unchristian,
to plead the necessary effects of our
own ill treatment of them as an excuse
for the continuance of the wrong.
the advocates of the disfranchise
ment of the colored man, merely be
cause he is degraded, seem to forget
that there are different kinds of degra
dation that there is a voluntary degra
dation and an involuntary degradation;
the one criminal and the other in
nocent.
if a man, of his own free will, ne
glects all opportunities for improve
ment, and voluntarily plunges into ig
norance and crime, while it is the duty
of the philanthropist to labor for his
elevation to virtue and usefulness, no
one is responsible for his deplorable
situation but himself. but if a man, by
the force of circumstances beyond his
control, by the oppression of others
who are stronger, is deprived of oppor
tunities for cultivation and improve
ment —if he is almost forced to be ig
norant—if every avenue to refinement
is securely closed against him, and he
8 compelled to stifle at its birth every
tope of advancement, then he certainly
s unblamable, and the criminality rests
with his oppressor.
that the degradation of the colored
nan is involuntary may be proved by a
•eview of his history, which will be
luffici—fly developed by replies to two
questions—why is he here and why is
:ie degraded?
why is he here? is it because he
voluntarily abandoned his native coun
try, and sought a servile station in the
new world? no! he is here because
fiends in the forms of slavetraders in
vaded the coast of his nstive land, in
terrupted him in the enjoyment of his
liberties, dragged him from the home of
his infancy and the friends of his youth,
hurried him on board of floating hells,
and after a horrid passage, at the de
tails of which sensibility sickens and
humanity fshudders, brought him to
amerioa, and here sold him into joy
less, hopeless, endless bondage. this
is why he is here. now, why is
he degraded? (can any american
answer this question without a rebuking
conscience and a shame-crimsoned
cheek?) he is degraded, because since
his residence among us, he has enjoyed
no opportunities for mental and moral
improvement; but, on the other hand,
everything has been done that could
be done, not only to fetter his intellect
and lacerate his feelings, but to extin
guish the light of reason itself, and to
seal up the otherwise gushing fountains
of his heart,
in|the slaveholding has
been a subject of
of burden, his labor often ehhjßwith
stripes that mercy) with a bleeding
heart, weeps when she sees inflicted on
a beast,” liable at any time to be won
on a horse-race, or lost at a gaming
table unable to acquire any property
even in himself; his contract of mar
riage disregarded by the laws; forbid
den to carry out the evident designs of
his maker, by cultivating the intellect
with which he has endowed him; with
no home from which be may not be torn
without a moment's warning; with no
fam&y of whom he may not be deprived
by the whim, hate or necessity of an
other; and (oh, most odious and damn
able feature of thejaccursed system—
that which permits the very foundation
of morality to be sapped with impunity
—that which seems to provoke and al
most defy the wrath of a just and pure
god;) with no security for the chastity
of women, can we wonder that he is
degraded can we believe that he is
responsible for the degradation
in the free states, although his light
of intelligence may burn a little bright
er, it only enables him to see more
clearly the nature and extent of hii
wrongs. nominally free, he is (de
prived of thdse privileges without which
freedom is almost nothing worth; com
pelled to obey rulers in whose election
he has no agency; obliged to submit tc
laws made without bis knowledge 01
consent; banished from almost ever}
college and academy; exiled from
places of public amusement; at the
theatre, the church, and the lectun
room, compelled to occupy allotted
seats, fixed swrks for scorn to poia
his finger at”—the jest of the dnmk
aid, the fop, the libertine, and um
gambler; and even when his soul hai
left his mortal frame, his body is some
tunes refused a burial place in the com
moo receptacle of the dead; yet no
them, so
rochester, n. y., friday, february 23, 1849.
content with persecuting the poor col*
ored man through life, this cruel preju
dice, with more than bloodhound re
lent] essn ess, pursues him to the very
gates of heaven.
having thus, in the strong language
of truth, shown that the colored man is
not responsible for his degradation, i
contend that it should not b# urged
against him by his oppressors.
from tk« tree weeleyaa.
fugitives uf canada.
i promised in my last, to give some
particulars showing the thrifty condition
of the self-emancipated slaves. a
great proportion of them are farmers.
you do not see the colored people in
cataslf aryuo mm fttau n the states,
settling in towns and cities, engaged
as waiters about hotels, barbers or
boot-blacks, and the women washing
white people's dirty clothes. i did
not see a colored person, except in one
instance, engaged about a tavern.
they are engaged, for the most part,
in what are considered honorable em
ployments. i always feel bad, when i
am travelling, to be waited on by a
colored man. the prejudice which is
crushing this people is fed by the fact,
that so many of them are found waiting
on the white race. the feeling that
they are fit for little else than servants
—that they ought to wait on the whites,
is kept alive by the menial business in
which so many of them engage in the
states. they are more respected in
canada than in the states, because they
are engaged in more respectable occu
pations. i congratulate them on this
account, and urged them not to copy
the example oi their colored brethren
in the states.
great injustice has been done this
people by representations made in the
states, or sent to them. they have
been represented as a lazy, poor,starv
ing community, for whom donations in
clothing, stc., must be made and sent
annually, 'to keep them from suffering.
they are deeply afflicted and grieved
with these representations; and in their
annual convention, at drummondsville,
passed a resolution requesting their
friends in the slates to send no more
clothing to canada, except for the new
comers and the schools. they said
they did not want any; they had taken
care of themseles and their masters to
boot in slavery, and in such a country
as canada, they could take care o.
hemselves well. they did not wish
o be considered objects o! charity, and
'elt insulted to be so represented.
i conversed with a number of white
gentlemen, of standing and wealth, re
ative to the fugitives, whose united tes
imony was, that for the first four or five
rears of their residence in canada, they
vere thrillless; but after that time they
)ecame industrious and good citizens.
they spoke of them in terms of com
nendation. this is easi y accounted
or. they were accustomed in slavery
o have their work planned, and laid to
heir hand, and never planned or laid
>ut their own work, and never had-ex
jerience in this important business; and
vhen they came to canada, where they
lave to arrange business for themselves,
ire like young men who learn the
tewing part of tailoring, before they
learn to cut—they can make a firstrate
coat if it be cut to their hand, but must
learn to cut out, or plan business,when
they reach their new and free homes;
md it takes them usually three or four
pears to do it, and then their thrift be
gins, according to the above statement.
this is just what we ought to expect.—
it is perfectly natural.
i saw quite a number who had pretty
good farms, and everything necessary
tor* life and comfort around them.—
some are worth hundreds, and others
thousands of dollars. i cannot com
pare them with the colored people oi
the slave states, for they are so much
better situated that there are no points
comparison—there are poiuts of con
trast, but not of comparison. and, as
i said before, they are better situated
than the free people of color in the
united states. but the brightest phase
of that people is in prospect.
are destined, in the country to whifl
they have fled, to become just what tfl
people of that country is—not what they
are now, but what they will be, when
the resources of that great country be
come fully developed a wealthy,
learned, influential, and highly civilized
community.
tbe laws there make no distinction
on account of color. the colored man
can take rank end place with his white
brother, and the fsgitives may become
a part of the community, and share
their part of its benefits. some of them
understand their interests in this re
tfbect, and are ready to take hold of
any and everythin* calculated to iden
tify them, not as black or colored men,
but as british subjects, and are ready
to go against everything which gives
them any identity or inters** not com
mon to all british subjects. this prin
ciple must be cherished and inculcated
until every colored man in canada shall
be baptized with ittapirit. thiz work
will require labor, time nad pattenen--
but it must be dose; it m the colored
man s only exodus. as long as he is
heir to any blessing or curse, on ac
count of his color, he will be mode to
feelthsthsisacoloredmsn. there is
ss mock or more difcouity to eet the
colored people right on thm point as the
whites, jbut it dooemn and
great wisdom is required to accomplish
5. i will notice more fully
hereafter. e. smith.
i hsveli meay yearn, ia every
emiie todufctmeeto theopuuoe of people,
astern 1 have iseeon to thmk them good m
wise.— drjlntm.
oeleftions.
aiemca! slavery.
dtu sim:—since my return front a
tour in u»e united states, which occu
pied a year, and gave me many valuable
opportunities for becoming acquainted
with the american people and their in
stitutions, i have been questioned by
many friends as to the opinion i formed
on slavery.
it is needless perhaps for me to pre
mise, that in respect to the main princi
ples involved in the subject, there could
be no room for change. my abhor
rence of slavery is deeply fixed, and
can neither be overcome nor softened.
if i had founded it chiefly on the sup
posed general ill-treatment of slaves by
their masters, and their endurance of
physical privations, it might be much
affected by the knowledge that a large
proportion of m&aters are generally
kind to their slaves; and that the mere
outward means of comfort sffordgd them
are usually not inconsiderable, being
even manifestly superior to what many
freemen can obtain. but all this has
little to do with the question. wher
ever there is irresponsible power, it
will be often abused. it is men’s in
terest to use well their domestic animals
and cattle; but how often do we see the
most wanton and revolting cruelty prac
tised on creatures whose want of power
to complain ought to plead for them as
powerfully as their useful services! it
is the interest of a despot to have under
him a flourishing and happy people,
which he might do much towards effect
ing by a prudent regard to known prin
ciples of good government; but not the
less the experience of the whole world
proves, that security against the gross
est tyranny can only be obtained under
free institutions. many may find little
personally to complain of; but some are
grievously oppressed, and all are de
graded. let any one only look over
the newspapers of any of the slave
states, and every page wiil afford him
proof that there are abundant cases oi
cruelty, and that the necessary influ
ences of slavery on its victims are bru
talising; and, if hearing that most men
treated their slaves with ordinary kind
ness; unless when peculiarly provoked, j
and seeing their well-being, as far as'
compatible with their enslaved condi- 1
tion, carefully attended to on the estates
of some of the wealthier members of;
society, with whom we may have agree- i
able intercourse, should make us con
tented to let the system pass uncon
demned, or only slightly censured, our
judgments must indeed be feeble, sup
posing that our hearts can be right.—
slavery is essential injustice. the laws
which sanction it are wicked anti odi
ous; and no man who has the slightest
feeling respecting the value of freedom,
or the least regard for the welfare of his
brethren, can live under them, without
constant efforts to procure their altera
tion. the pretence of a right of pro
perty is an insult to reason. every
civilized man learns so much of the
meaning, of justice, even from child
hood, as to know that if he happens
to acquire a legal claim where he can
have no moral or equitable right, it
must immediately be abandoned. an
honorable man who discovers that he
is holding an estate of which another is
the rightful heir, even if he had no fear
of possible detection, would give it up,
though he were to go forth a beggar.—
in such cases, right admits of no com
promises, and honesty has no choice as
to its course of action.
a favorite notion, even of many sin
cere haters of slavery among the ame
ricans, is, that we english have no
right to express any feeling on the sub
ject—that it is interference with private
affairs and domestic institutions of a
foreign nation—that it is more likely to
irritate than to convince—and that we
had better look at home, where we have
misery and (as is alleged) oppression
far worse than slavery. that we have
evils enough, and quite enough to do to
correct them, is not to be doubted;
though americans are peculiarly apt to
misapprehend their nature and causes;
and often utter very unfounded re
proaches in relation to them; but whilst
we do all we can at home, and are
ready to join in every effort for ameli
oration which seems to us to promise
usefulness, are our souls to be so
ipramped and confined in their sympa
thies, that we are to see and notice no
fevil beyond our own bounds? is the
common tie of human brotherhood noth
ing have we either the right or the
power to suppress our sentiments
nay, our expostulations, in the pres
ence of a great wrong committed in the
fact of the world, in the sacred name
of liberty, and under the sanction of
institutions which are held forth as a
model to mankind?— car. of the london
hqmrtr.
northampton water-cure.
january, 10th, 1849.
mb. editor 1 take the liberty to
send you the following extract from the
letter of a young lady who has spent
some time at the above establishment in
massachusetts, to her sister in this
state, not doubting that you will be wil
ling to publish it tor the benefit of the
suffering. h.
1 know, dear sister, that yon will
be surprised and bappjr to learn that i
am no longer troubled with my spinal
or other complaints, except the remains
of the scrofula in the neck. when i
reflect what ay sufferings have been in
these respects, 1 am astonished at the
reality. could you hare seen am dur
ing the crisis, while the system was
undergoing the change, you would
scarcely have recognized your sister.—
the depression of spirits, and the inde
scribable variety of symptoms that seam
to harass a subject of the cur* 2i this
time, often produces deformi
ties, which sts almost inrnrahls
whether the dr. will succeed m re
moving ell the scrofula aad the kernels
from mjr neck, i know not; but «s he
bus cured me of the extreme sufferings
thst sent me here, i cannot think of
leering the cure without giving him an
opportunity of trying his skill against
this affection. if it can be done, i
here no fears for his success.
besides other almost hopeless cases,
nine ladies with whom i am acquainted
hare been cured of their ailmen s since
i hare been at the establishment. one
was a lady from the south, the wife of
a slaveholder, whose intense periodical
sufferings and the debilitating effect of
humors had baffled the skill of eminent
physicians for fourteen years. she was
pronounced incurable. without hope
of relief, or faith in the water cure,
she was induced by her husband to
place herself under the care of dr.
reggies,-and after fow months*
treatment, she foudd herself cured. on
realizing the result, language was in
adequate to express her feelings, and
tears of gratitude filled her eyes.
a lady from providence, r. 1., be
tween sixty and seventy years old,{who
had lost the use of her limbs with sci
atic gout, after a council of physicians
had decided that nothing but amputa
tion could afford her relief, like many
others, she came to this establishment
as the last resort. after some weeks’
treatment, she was enabled to stand
alone on her crutches: later, she could
take a few steps in her room; and later
still, she could walk from her room to
the parlor and return at pleasure; and
now she moves with much alacrity
through the house, and out on the ve
randa. the disease has nearly left her,
except in one ancle, the strength of
which she sometimes tries by walking
without crutches. her general health
is much improved, and her countenance
appears fresh and rosy. she is now
so far restored that no one doubts com
plete recovery.
many of the cases cured here are the
hardest f the kind. some who are so
feeble that they are not able to move
without assistance,are seen to walk from
two to four, and even from eight to ten
miles a day.
although the dr. is too unassuming
to make much of such cures, he is des
tined to become so extensively known
as to secure for himself that wide repu
tation as a skillful hydropathist which
he so justly merits.
it is suprising to witness the change
that has come over the public mind in
regard to his theory within the last five
years. when he first declared that he
recognized by the sense of touch, symp
toms of health or disease by the elec
trical state of the skin; that the phil
osophy of the cure of the disease in
found in the presence of this symptom,
and the equilibrium of the circulation,
he was hooted at, and his theory de
nounced as a “humbug.” now almost
every acknowledged scientific physio
logical writer in this country or eu
rope, who has investigated the subject,
from baron liebig to dr. j. b. dodd,
sustains dr. ruggle’s theory; and he
is justly regarded as “the discoverer of
cutaneous electricity.”
he is patronized by doctors and
lawyers, clergymen and laymen, me
chanics and farmers, slaveholders and
abolitionists. ladies and gentlemen
from every part of the country, and
from foreign places, embracing persona,
from various classes in society, with
different political notious and religious
sentiments, congregate to this siloam to
wash and be healed.
there are two other establishments
in northampton, one of which is re
garded as a place of fashionable resort,
but both furnish *heir patients with wa
ter, drags and high living. but those
who visit northampton water cure,
feel that they need a physician who can
treat them with nature’s own remedy;
and if they are curable at all, by strict
obedience to his directions, they are
sure to experience a return to health.
our dr. is very little more than the
ordinary size, thirty-eight years old,
with an athletic form, dark complexion,
and an intelligent and benevolent coun
tenance. he has much sagacity, and
possesses great energy and decision of
character, with a suavity and dignity of
manners that command the respect of
all who know him. in his assiduous
attention to the symptoms which attend
his patients, and his ready understand
ing when and how any application of
the treatment should be made -in ex
tremely doubtful cases, lies the secret
of his great success.”— rorh. adv.
•craps from cecil.
the hero of the world .is the men
that makes a bustle—the man that
makes the road smoke under his chatse
and-four—the man that raises the dust
about him—the man that manages or
devastates empires! but whst is the
real labor of this man—compared with
that of a silent sufiertr? he lives on
has projects. he encounters, perhaps,
rough roads—incommodious inns—bad
food—storms and perils— weary days
and sleepless nights:—but what are
these! —bis project—his poiot—the
thing that has laid hold on his heart—
glory—a name—consequence—pleas
ure—wealth—these render the man
callous to the pains sod efforts of the
body! i have been in both states, and
th«e£>ro uoiaaauod tktm; aod i boo.
iwt m ton. ihii tw mi... bt
ixmle, and
stir, and sctmrty, that supports itsrtf
at one pezd'l
five tunes on a sunday,
jjjj? iss u,i
mr b»la, and would h.r. called to
here: whereas, tf they were to look at
am now, they would cull me an idle,
john.dick.ipmh 1 i** 1
whole no. 6i:
lounging fellow. ho make* a wraoe
on saturday—ho geta into hit study*—
ho walks from ood to end—ho schbuon
on a scrap of paper—ho throws it away d
and scribbles on another—ho takas*
snuff—he sits doom—scribbles again—
walks abont.” the man cannot son
that here is an exhaustion of the spirit,
which, at night, will loam mo worn to
the extremely of endurance. ho can
not see the numberless efforts of mind,
which are crossed and stifled, and re
coil on the spirits; like the fruitless ef
forts of s traveller to get a firm footing
among the ashes on the steep sides of
mount etna.
justice.
in this god’s-world, with its wim
whirling eddies and mad foam-oceans,
where men and natioos perish as if
without law, and judgment for an un
just thing is sternly delayed, dost thou
think that there is therefore no justice?
it is what the fool hath said in his heart.
it is what the wise, in all times, they
were wise because they denied, and
knew forever not to be. i tell thee
again there is nothing else but justice.
one strong thing i find here below: the
just thing, the true thing. my friend,
if thou hadst all the artillery of wool
wich trundling at thy hack in support of
an unjust thing; and infinite bonfires
visibly waiting ahead of thee, to blaze
centuries long for thy victory on be
half of it, —i would advise thee to call
halt, to fling down thy baton, and say,
“in god's name, no!” thy ‘sutces?’
poor devil, what will thy succes amount
to? if the thing is unjust, thou hast
not succeeded; no, not though bon
fires blazed from north to south, and
bells rang, and editors wrote leading
articles, and the just thing lay trampled
out of sight, to all mortal eyes an abol
ished and annihilated thing. success?
in a few years thou wilt be dead and
dark, —all cold, deaf; no blaze of bon
fires, dingdong of bells or leading ar
ticles visible or audible to thee again
to all forever: what kind of suc
cess is that?— carlyle.
rights of married women.—a
movement is in progress at albany, to
enlarge, still more, the rights of mar
ried women to property.
the judiciary committee of the
senate propose the following amend
ment to the celebrated bill of last win
ter for the protection of the property of
married women:—
“any married female may take by
inheritance, or by gift, grant, or be
quest, from any person other than her
husband, and to hold to her sole and
separate use, and convey and devise
real and personal property, and any
interest or estate therein, and the rents,
issues, profits thereof, in the same man
ner, and with like effect, as if she were
unmarried, and the same shall not be
subject to the disposal of her husband,
nor liable for his debts; and any such
married women may take real property,
or any interest or estate therein, by
grant from her husband, and the rents,
issues and profits thereof, anc! hold the
same to her sole and separate use, and
with like effect as if such husband and
wife were unmarried; and such pro
perty shall not be subject to the dispo
sal of such husbaqd, lior be liable for
any debts contracted or liabilities in
curred by him, after the evidence or
deed of such grant shall be recorded in
the office of the clerk of the county
where such property is situated."
new use of the telegraph.—a
successful experiment upon the tele
graph between this city and philadel
phia, made here by the distinguished
astronomer, sears c. walker, and
prof. locke of the ohio medical uni
versity, demonstrates its utility in as
certaining the difference of longitude
between any two points upon this line.
prof. locke, we learn, has devised a
plan of connecting the machinery of a
clock with the telegraph in such a man
ner that its beats may be heard or
registered on the running fillet of paper
that receives telegraphic impressions at
every station. in this way, it can
mara simultaneously at each station and
both extremities, the hours, minutes
and seconds, and also, says the gazette,
the exact fraction of a second at which
a star or other celestial body passes
the meridisn at either place. in this
way the differencs of time, and of
course of longitude between two points
can be ascertained with the greatest
accuracy.
it is remarkable that the tickings of
the clock, when in communicatioo with
the wire, can be heard alone the line
from cincinnati to philadelphia with
perfect distinctness.
prof. locke's plan of connection,
we understand, is original, ingenious,
and far more simple thao any others
that have been suggested.— cm. qlobt.
tax faxt man.— man is not free
while sinful pleasures sod corrupt de
sire* control his heart. ignorance is
bondage. vicious habits are chains,
and that soul is imprisoned which
dwells in a bosom bearing with the
volcanic fires of passion.
how many minds attempt to drag
through the world these
oot sufficient light mhavm~tl
v en»» to fetter bout, or
o«or mo. bo. nnel, pmmh;
violence done to notare to letter the
miad, cutting off the power to do good,
or to be happy, when that mind do*-’
i senses elements within, and a thousand
sources without, from which to draw it vitality. let those who have light freely give it. let him who is in darkness, resolve in virtue’s strength to raise himself above it, and put on the dignity which is his by the hand of his creator. then shall he be truly great, truly free. 
the canandaigua fair
friends will hear in mind that this anti-
slavery fair will be held on tuesday neat,
27th inst., in the franklin hall, to continue
ntiemoon and evening. it is confidently
hoped there will he a general attendance of
liberal purchasers. i’he avail' are for the
spreading of anti-slavery truth in western
new york.
nil for reform cmmum.
we, the undersigned, believing that agita
non or righteoua|diacu«ioa it the usual lew
of progrem, both in political end more) re
tom& unsu m °u»ly agree in issuing this cell
tbrit>bnßesl reform con vent ion,to be beld
at walworth, wayne county, n. y. t on
tuesday, the 87th day of february, 1849, for
the purpoee of disruaatng some of the vita),
radical questions which are now disturbing the
great deep of the public mind. it is expeeted
and intended that persona of all classes end
denominations will attend and participate in
the discussion, if they shall choose to do so.
among the questions to be discussed on
that occasion, we would respectfully suggest
the following:
human governments of divine ap
pointment
t2d. what are the relations of christians to
such governments i
3d. is any kind of war right i
4th. what is a gospel or christian church 1
sth. what is christian fellowship!
fith. the christian ministry of divine
appointment?
7th. have all men an inalienable right to
so much of the earth’s surface as shall secure
to them a comfortable homestead
tfth. does an equality of rights exist be
tween men and women in respect to all theii
•orial, political and religious relations?
9th. are man’s abilities coextensive with
l.ts obligations t
10th. do christians at the present day
tbflbr from primitive christians, as it respects
their gifts, privileges and obligations?
llth. is slavery always and everywhere
a sin 7
it is desirous that all who can will come
well prepared to discuss and elucidate at least
one of the above-named questions. gerrit
smiih, wm. goodell, thomas mcclintock,
frederick douglass, and other prominent re
formers, are expected to be present.
we want a general rally of speakers and
bearers, for w'e believe it the cause of god
and humanity.
walter lasher, walw’orth.
jeremiah lasher,
levi j. hicks,
h. s. simmons,
j. melvin,
daniel popino,
asahel hovt,
r. k. richmond,
john lawrence,
john abbott,
philip lawrence,
joseph jackson,
john r. williams,
ezra brown,
david gordon,
joseph e. hillman,
b. b. adams,
stephen howell,
abraham peer,
hiram harding,]
samuel c. patrick,
john stretch.
robert smith,
b. s. bush,
e. g. greenfield,
john cole,
william poller,
g. m. cooper,
mary h. cooper,
samuel smith, marion.
john reynolds, pultneyville
e. w. capron, auburn/
rebecca m. capron, j
fiotn tlie liberator.]
american slavery.
warrington, 25th of 12 mo. 1848
to j. j. flournoy,
farm near athens, georgia.
i have read thy letter, addressed to ‘fred
erick douglass,’ with pain and with pity.
with pain, that anything in the shape of a
man can he found in that enlightened country,
the united states of north america, so de
praved as to advocate slavery, and to claim
the right to possess or traffic in the persons or
hlood of his fellow-creatures; and one who
can be so wicked as to pervert and falsify any
passages of the holy scriptures, for justifi
cation of such sinful practice. and with pity
for the human tyrant, who can thus openly
avow his own infamy
to argue upon such falsification of the
scriptures would he as worthless waste of
tune, as for the lamb in the fable to have
argued with the wolf, which accused it of
muddying the water running towards it where
the wolf was standing. but, in pity to thy
own mental depravity, as is evinced in thy let
ter to frederick douglass, may i earnestly
recommend and entreat, not only thyself, but
aloo all other abettors ef slavery, carefully to
read and consider the christian dispensation,
as revealed in the new testament, and hum
bly to implore of your heavenly creator for
divine teaching to enable you feelingly to
know m what the principle of the christian
ehgion really consist*.
it is not for me to pass censure or judgment
o|»on others, as ‘vengeance is mine, 1 will re
*pay, saith the almighty.’ but as the whole
human race is interested in knowing with
whom to be on tbeir guard, there exists a
practice in great britain, and in other coun
tries the names of those who are accused of
crane, and on trial, w hether they are acquitted
or convicted, and as to the taking or posses
sing human beings, who ate uncunvicted ot
crime, to be held ill slavery, is next to mur
der, one of the grossest offences towards man
kind, of which ingn or women can be guilty
also if we examine into the real motive for
holding whit* or colored people in slavery, it
is to extort labor from the slave for less cost
or wages than he or she has a natural and
just right to for that labor; or, to other words,
fo ueui-d laborer of his honestly earned
property an ofteinx which not only concerns
the slaves who are an robhrei, ul w /uch also
interfere* with the just interest* oi t til*
borers, they being thereby compelled to sen
their toil for reduced wage*, to enable them
to compete with the unnaturally cheapened
labor of the slave, and slaverv being thus a
fraud against the natural stock in trade of the
tree workman, (his labor,) it i* thereby a
enrse against him
for these offences ought tlia name and ad
dress of evety one of those depraved crimi
nals, the slaveholders and slave dealers,
together with the number of alavef which
cadi posesses, or has bought or sold, to be
published to the world, as in other countries,
us s caution to all with whom their may have
dealings as to the character of the party
whom they may be treating with.
as for thy assumed superiority over fred
erick douglass, or tka people of his eolor' so
fhr as 1 haw h«| opportunity to sksevrve,
were any competent scholar to makes ooro
pansoo bet wees the betauftl and nonaire
fangoage of his speeches, hisdigiifed sad
gentlemanly manners, sad the classical eor
lectnes of his writings, on the one ride;
and the ungramatkal mutilated composhioo
(he it english or americas) of thy fetter to
him on. the other; that scholar would haw
no difficulty in awarding that frederick doug
lass is infinitely thy superior in intelligence
and polite literature.
in conclusion, if thou could haw anticipated
the extent to which the hypocrisy and des
potic mind, displayed in lay letter to fred
erick douglass, has degraded thee is the esti
mation of every sincere friend of true liberty
who has read it; and how greatly thou hast
disgraced the national character of the coun
try, whose laws will sanction the tyrant prin
ciples which thou therein avows; i am eoo
vinced thou would have been more cautious
of so degrading thy own name, or of so libel
ing the nation which permits thee thus to
trample upon its reputation.
sincerely trusting that thy own mental
conviction will induce thee to adopt the true
christian practice of doing to all others, white
or black, as thou would they should do unto
thee,
i remain, thy sincere well-wisher,
edward west.
[lf our english friend, edward west, had
known how unworthy of the least notice is
the individual to whom he addresses himself,
for having made a vulgar and mean attack on
frederick douglass, he would have spared
his powder and shot. flournoy is either a
fool or a monomaniac; and in either case be is
not a disputant worth contending with. on
the subject of alavery, colonization and color
phobia, however, he fairly represents the
spirit of american religion and republicanism.
—ed. lib.j i
morals or tire south. —we published a
few weeks ago (says the christian citizen,)
several short paragraphs from southern news
papers indicative of the semi-barbarous state
of society that exists in some communities of
the slave holding states. by the following
extract from the valedictory address of goy
emor edwards of missouri, our readers will
learn that even the gubernatorial chair is no
sinecure where slavery does its foul work of
deadening the susceptibilities of conscience to
every principle of justice, whether human or
divine. after reminding the legislature that
almost every governor had fallen before the
hatred, envy and malice heaped upon him,
his excellency goes on to specify the fate of
some of his more immediate predecessors.
“one —a good man and patriot—resigned
and left his post before his time expired; the
next left before his term was out, and not in
good odor the next commited suicide a year
in advance of the close of his four years and
the next has moved at all times prepared to
meet the assassin, during at least three and a
half years out of the four of his administra
tion. if a man is not driven to do it he must
at least be willing to fight his way, if he does
his country and his constituents as an execu
tive of this state. and the matter is not bet
ter now than it was formerly,but it is worse.”
the residence which the state prepares for
the governor, he says, is better than it was
when he took it, and would be “comfortable
enough if it were furnished
the north star.
rochester, february 23, 1849.
anti-slavery agitation.
it is a most cheering sign of the times,
that american slavery has become the promi
nent theme of discussion, both in public and
private circles. other topics of course are
introduced, but after being briefly commented
upon, are then, as if by mutual consent, laid
‘under the table’ for an interchange of ex
pression on this question, which, like the
egyptian’s rod, absorbs all others. this
encouraging state of the public mind furnishes
abundant testimony of the discernment, faith
fulness and perseverance of the early aboli
tionists, who, since the advent of the lib
erator by william lloyd garrison, have con
tinued to pour upon this guilty nation the liv
ing coals of truth—though to be sure north
ern pro-slavery editors and others are pre
tending to deny the source from whence these
influences have emanated; yet impartial his
tory will record upon its tablet the merit due
to those uundaunted pioneers and victorious
champions.
the struggle commenced in 1829, when, in
the language of another, the silence of
death seemed to brood over the hopes of lib
erty—when the number of slaves had swelled
to two and a half millions, and the whole body
of northern freemen also-were lying bound to
the system by the chains of political and ec
clesiastical expediency.” the pioneer sheet
was in that dark hour unfurled to the breeze,
in the eyes of the nation, within sight of
bunker hill, and in the birth-place of liberty,
consecrated to the cause, till every chain be
broken and every bondman set free.” from
that time to the present moment has its
warnings, prophecies and appeals, though
unheeded by the time-serving priest and poli
tician, been accepted, proclaimed and devel
oped by those who can now rejoice in that
healthful agitation ere long destined to redeem
republican america from the foul shame, ex
citing contempt and surprise from the mon
archies of the old world. an ancient philo
sopher once remarked, tint there was always
a merit in being attached to the subdivision,
evidently intending thus to enforce the pro
priety of keeping ourselves aloof from the
multitude who do evil, but rather to be identi
fied with the chosen tew, to whose hands in
every age has been entrusted the mission ot
regenerating society. such a subdivision are
the spartan band of american abolitionist*
who, animated with a noble determination to
free this land from slavery’s curve, avail them
selves of every means of appeal consistent
with their maxim, that absolute right is the
highest expediency.” in accordance with
this pomtion, their efforts have been made
manifest in the various anti-slavery reso
lutions, reports and addresses put forth by
legislatures and religious conferences, as also
the yielding of slavery’s potent northern ally
—prejudice iigainst color.
the recent movement!) at washington,
headed by john c. calhoun—the exciting
battles there waging between freedom and
slavery,and the cotemporary action in several
local legislatures, both north and sooth, are
unmistakable indications that the days of
tyranny are numbered. well may the “great
embodiment' of slavery evince alarm for the
interest* of the peculiar institution, when in
states where slavery now exists are to be
found men who, vritncvt fear or favor, are
boldly bearding the lion in bif own den, in
voking aid to effect its abolition.
a vigorous agitation has recently been
viable in tbs state of kentucky on tbs sub
ject of smandpution; but though a largo
number am strenuous in its fever, yet
glorious day of freedom has bees deferatf by
the house of representatives but it as only
for tbs present. tbs pan up waters wtß
sweep away all oppsfetfon. tbs pro-da very
puny there will speedy be glad to submit in
such terms as may be dictated. kentucky
will yet be a free sate. the line once
broken, virginia, delaware and maryland
w3l soon follow suit. the genius of free
dom, having commenced a march south, an
calbouniam will prove sufficiently potent tu
arrest its triumph.
in alabama, a prominent citizen has ad
dressed a letter to governor chapman, urging
the necessity of a law to prevent the further
immigration of slaves into the statu; and in
mississippi, the same restriction has been de
manded by an extra session of the legisla
ture. there, (among other devefopements,)
though only a shadowing forth of what the
exigencies require, are to be regarded by the
abolitionist as ominous of a success the re
ward of his vigilant efforts.
the discussions in northern legislature
have also borne testimony to the advancing
state of public opinion. in ohio, the noble
exertions to wipe from her statute-book the
infamous black laws, has been defeated by
the senate, though passed in the house by t
vote of 19 to 1?; and pennsylvania, as if de
termined for an immortality of hatred toward!
those she has injured, again refuses equal suf
frage to her colored citizens. but this tern
porary defeat will only awaken to renewet
vigor the friends of humanity in those tw<
states. in their future contests with th<
enemy, may jhey prove as valiant as did um
ancient romans, with whom to proclaim
war was to insure a triumph—to invade war
to conquer.”
while chattel slavery, with its train o
horrors, blights the southern states of thii
union, the north is pre-eminently guilty it
its exhibition of prejudice against those whosi
complexions identify them with the laboring
classes of the south. the abolitionists arraj
themselves to oppose this cruel proscription,
many of them indeed assume the laboi
cheerfully, and faithfully perform its require
ments. the magnitude of this colorphobia.
and the sacrifices often needed in its suppres
sion, can only be appreciated by the unin
itiated when informed that it is the northern
offering to the moloch of slavery. a colore*
american is usually treated as though hi:
presence was a spell to conjure up the devi
withal—the finger of scorn pointed to him a
he aspires to the means of equal improvemen
with his favored brethren, and every injustici
practised to crush his intellect, and render hi
position in his own, his natire land, a cure
instead of a blessing.
in new york state, his citizenship is no
acknowledged unless he possesses two hun
dred and fifty dollars in real estate. a dis
tinguished journalist thus expressed himsel
in view of this anti-republican exterior
plutus must be highly esteemed where hi
rod can change a negro into a man. if s2s*
will perform this miracle, what would it re
quire to elevate a monkey to this enviable dis
tinction this embargo upon the colore
man’s progress in the empire state, will no
always remain. let the abolitionists direc
l attention to this much-needed reform, be con
slant in and out of season, and in due time a
i enlightened public opinion wifi make an es
j celsior step, and secure to all an equality c
suffrage. europeans, when visiting the uni
ted states, are at once surprised to witnes
s the treatment meted out to the man of sabl
s hue. accustomed themselves to regard ma
as man, it respective of complexional differ
euce, they usually require some explanatio
for these manifestations of colorphobia, o<
curring in every ramification of society, an
are not convinced of its propriety any th
i more on being told that the colored man i
of inferior origin, and therefore a fit subjet
for insult and reproach. their education an
manhood indignantly reject such an answer
a slander coined at the bidding of slavery.
s the colored man’s friends are constant!
claiming for him an equality of privilegei
i based on his nativity, loyalty, and the im
f mutable law of god. there are, however
those styling themselves abolitionists, wh<
1 are sometimes found deficient in a tryinj
i hour. such “falling from grace” doubtles
occurs in the ranks of every reform for a]
who profess are not always fully imbued witl
t the principle, thereby losing opportunities o
squaring their practice with their preaching
f these anti-slavery tests are submitted in th<
every-day routine of business and social life
and oft-times prove 1 severe trials, except t<
i those of the radical, genuine stamp. aboli
i tionists owe it to their high calling to be con
i sistent; not to place their light under i
bushel, but let its rays be conspicuous in thi
sight of a pro-slavery community for in thii
1 department, perhaps, more than any other,
i are to be found the most direct means of influ
encing the public mind.
a few years since, when the state o]
massachusetts was agitated from cape cod tc
i berkshiie with the exclusion of colored pas
sengers from equal railroad privileges, many
an instance occurred where abolitionists iden
tified themselves with the proscribed, re
membering those m bonds as bound with
them,” and on some occasions sharing indig
nities, which were intended for those whore
sin was the texture of hair and the hue
of skin.”
it is with the most grateful emotions that 1
would here record the names of william lloyd
garrison and wendell phillips, both of whoa
on being with colored friends, travelling by
cars unaided and alone, remonstrated against
their colonization, and in the crisis preferred
exile with the oppressed, rather than remain
in comfort with the oppressor. such exhibi
tions of fidelity to principle were not lost
upon the fellow-passengers. there is abund
ant reason to believe that these and ""ifo
incidents, in connection with the eloquent
appeals of charles lenox remond and other
anti-slavery lecturers, were instrumental in
removing all odious resytetkos from the east
ern railroad. so shines a good deed in a
wicked world.” lave the true life, apeak
the tree'word, and god will mere the effort.
there is a sun-dial in italy, with the in
scription, “i mark only the hours that riuna,”
inculcating the lesson that though life is not
all happy and beautiful yet we should not
dwell always upon the darker portion of tbs
picture, bat remember to look also upon the
l*jwht «4e. what a satisfaction to the pro
scribed american ia the feet, that ia
this nisvery-ea ism than are thaee tree
beans ready to eeeetd the and prrvi
legs# to others so prised by themscto2 #hst
ia the highways and byways ef hfe, the ma
raud ear and maamhout, the mp, eollugn,|
and the church, in the stredhp*.
parlor, noble hand are foneflw*d in pm
poee, uneumprantistng lb principle, foarloe in
action, whose wramplre are like specks of
vredare amidst universal barrenness, of scat
tered lights amidst thick and prevailing dark
aem. let him then taka courage, profit by
aid of his friends, who point ban to the temple
of rights and bid him eater, bat forge* no* that to
hie own effort! mainly will he owe elevation.
what waits he fort why credent himself to
repose at the base of the bih, when by an
ascent to its summit, he may obtain an ingress
to ife marble balls, where none shall molest
or make him afraid.—w. c. x-
prow the tribww.
another pacheco.
washington, thursday, feb 8.
the following memorial was received a
few days smoe from the interior of our state,
subtaitod to ffbe house through the spea
ker, and referred by rule to the judiciary
committee, from which mr. burt of s. c.
this morning reported against it, and on his
motion it was laid on the table. as mr.
burt is the very man who voted and pressed
through the bul to pay the widow pacheco
for her mack runaway, i should have been
glad to bear his reasons for rejecting this so
gruffly, but be gave none. hear the peti
tioner
tv the horn. speaker ef the house ef rtpe. of the
united statatee ef america:
your petitioner would represent that in the
year 1846, her husband, james johnson,
entered the army of gae. taylor as a volun
teer, for $7 a month, and found. thai, aftci
being in the battles of palo alto and resca
de la palma, be deserted for ill-usage or some
other cause, and went over to the enemy:
that at the battle of buena vista he was
taken prisoner with the mexicans, and, on
being presented to gen. taylor as a deserter,
the old general disowned him, and said bis
men never deserted and sent him back to
the enemy.
your petitioner farther learns, that your
honorable body pays for men—for instance,
the “pacheco slave case”—and your peti
tioner, going upon the principle that a white
man is worth more than a negro, prays your
honorable body to allow your petitioner the
sum of $2,000 for the loss of the said james
johnson to his wife, and your petitioner will
ever pray. mart johnson.
newark, wayne co. n. y.’jan. 16,1849.
slavery in california.—the pretence
that the soil and climate of california forbid
the use of slave labor, and that therefore leg
islation on the subject is superfluous, receives
a practical refutation in the following para
graph from a washington letter in the bos
ton atlas:
“a gentleman of veracity has informed me
to day, that a resident of the district has
lately departed for california with eight
slaves. he goes by the way of missouri,
and perhaps may be joined by other planters
and slaves from that state. i have the name
of the emigrant, and his location, but with
hold them for prudential reasons.”
hydrophobia.—a communication in the
boston daily advertiser describes a remedy
for hydrophobia, discovered and successfully
employed by the late dr. benaiah sanborn,
of sanborton, n. h. it is simply a strong
decoction of lobelia, and powder composed ot
one gr. opium one gr. sal nitre, one gr. gum
camphor, and two grs. digitalis, all finely
powdered.
in a case somewhat advanced, the powder
was given three time*, at intervals of thirty
minutes. afterward, once in four hours.
when the symptoms are mild, three or four
powders in twenty-four hours, may be suf
ficient. half the quantity for the smallest
child.
a strong decoction of lobelia should be
given as soon as possible, and followed till it
vomits. it should be continued, but not so
freely. the wounds should be washed freely
with the decoction.
marriage on sunday. —lt is said that
the pennsylvania courts have decided that
marriage is a civil contract; and that they
have also decided that no contract made on
sunday is valid. the register says that the
question is now being agitated whether mar
riages made in that state on sunday are law
ful, and whether indictments for bigamy can
be sustained, where the first marriage had ta
ken place on sunday.
napoleon and the french.—of the
memory of the emperor napoleon, among
the french, mr. walsh writes:—
you must have travelled over france as i
have done in every direction, to comprehend
how mementos in the forms of pictures, busts,
inscriptions, almanacs, narratives, songs, local
honors, are multiplied and diffused, not a
private or public edifice in which his name
does not predominate. thirty-three years
have elapsed since his reign, his omnivorous
and iron despotism is forgotten, his veterans
and all the retired soldiery spread in rural
districts, have constantly turned the national
spirit so enamored of war and glory, to the
homage which makes nearly the business of
their lives.
in this respect (the subdirisiou of property)
france, more equitable than england, has
shown herself more politic. while our laws
favor, by a continual action, the accumulation
of landed property, hers, on the contrary, tend
to a perpetual subdivision of it. it is possi
ble that the system in france may not be con
fined within proper bounds, but even were it
carried to an extreme it is less prejudicial
than the opposite one.— sir walter scott.
repute.—the london morning
cmhfele is rather severe upon this country
in reject to its lack of financial credit. in
allusion to the remark in mr. polk's message,
that ‘the character of the nation is advancing,'
that journal says:
‘while the americans have more money,
they have less honor. one feet is worth a
thousand assertions about ‘tbe character of
the nation ia advancing,’ namely, that not*
withstanding the admitted and unparalleled
resources ol america, her federal stock ia to
be had at this moment, at a lower price than
thooe of revolutionized france and distracted
austria.’ this is severe because it is unfor
tunately true. the repudiating states of the
union have brought the blot upon our es
cutcheon.—boston transcript.
reform in great britain.—reform is
now said to be the watchword ot the day in
great britain. an address to the govern
ment has been published in one of the lead
ing periodicals of f-ngt*nd, the westminster
review, in which the grievances of the peo
ge are set forth in a form and tone which the
ritish government will not dare to overlook
the people are represented as determined on
the following demands
1. we demand a veal representation of the
people in the commons house of parlimeot. j
1. we demand an extension of the right of
taeal settgovenunert.
s. we demand economy and retrenchment
ef administration of the pubhe revenue.
4. we demand n tovimno and just appor
tionment to the burden of taxation.
we demand a free press.
demand a jnst administration of as
7. we ‘orm. of conscience in
"—here of religion.
8. we deold a law reform.
8. we demand mat laws of inbentaaee.
10. wedamaadvedatminr the army and
**ll w» demand preventative poor laws.
on »-ir
u m b good thing to bo employed in
futtonn* ft good com; tot no one ought
for dtesake of one branch of need, to unto*
aw»y bb power todoppottoaityrfdwog rood
of any kind/’
thb bin extract from the letter of friend
i» the old would, in reference to whftt he>
conceited to be a too exclusive attention on
toy part to the subject of slavery. it b ft
statement, in few words, of the argftmenfe
frequently put forth against what some are
pleased to call “one ideaisra.” the supposi
tion is, that be who labors in one portion of
the reform vineyard most do so at the expense
and to the neglect of all other portions. but
b thb supposition a true one! ia u not
rather true that reforms proceed oo the inva
riable plan of removing the worst and mod
apparent evil first, and gradually ascending
step by step to the establishment of higher
and still higher truths and b it not also
true, that thb b the shortest and most direct
mode to prepare the way for the development
of those ideas that are more remote, though
perhaps not less essential it b very evident
that we discuss to little purpose the question,
how a man shall live till hb right to life itself
is proved and acknowledged. the truth that
he has any right to live at all, most cease to
be questioned before it need be decided what
shall be the manner of hb existence. sup*
pose this granted, the next question in order
surely is, whether every man is entitled to
personal libeitv. he may live; but may he
lire the life of a freeman moat
answered before any other step can be taken
in the scale of progression. it will not serve
i to say, that, in as far as the majority of the
inhabitants of these united states are con
cerned, it has already been decided; for so
long as any portion of a people are degraded,
that degradation extend in effect to the
entire community. it would seem to be a
law, regulating the affairs of men, that no one
portion.of the human family, living in the
perpetual intercourse of daily life, can greatly
proceed in advance of any other portion.—
what is gained on the one hand, is lost on the
other. it profits nothing that the physical
existence is all that can be desired, while the
intellectual is neglected; and little is gained,
although the physical and intellectual wants
are all satisfied, while the moral being is ex
posed to corrupting and degrading influences.
if the freemen of these states will not go to
the colored man in kindness, and bestow upon
him those rights which, as one of the human
family, belong to him, and of which iiecannol
be deprived with impunity, he will come tc
them in vengeance, and prove his relationship
in “a very unraistakeable manner.” the ef
forts that are now being made in some r f th<
states to rid them of their colored inhabitants
testify to this fact! says the preshyteriar
herald, as an argument for colonization
some of the slave states are beginning t<
feel that their [the colored inhabitants] pres
ence is a burden which is almost intolerable/
for the satisfaction of this christian
writer, it may be well to say, that this mus
continue to be the case just until all degrada
tion on account of color ceases to prevail ii
those states. the same feeling exists to
considerable extent in the northern states
where colored men are nominally free. thej
have freedom to go and come—to eat, drink
&c.; but freedom, social and political, th<
north also refuses them. that this state o
i tilings cannot and must not much longer con
i tinue, men are everywhere prepared to ac
1 knowledge. it will not be let alone. amids
rejoicings for victory and golden discoveriei
in california, and boastings of coramercia
prosperity/this one blot on the americai
i escutcheon rises up everywhere like banquo’i
i ghost, to dash the cup of gratulation fron
every lip. and so it will and ought to be
i till this wrong ceases, and the colored ameri
can can stand on his native soil enjoying thi
privileges of free and equal manhood.
there is no magic in the advances of thi
moral world. they all take place in accord
ance with the fixed and unvarying laws o
mind. human evils are remedied by huraai
1 means. as the physical being advances fron
infancy to childhood—from childhood to youtl
i —fiom youth to the perfect man so does thi
moral being. we do not expect to see thi
child of to-day, a perfect and fully develop*
man to-morrow. he must grow gradually,botl
mentally and bodily, in accordance with thi
laws of his being. no more need we expec
to see society, which is but humanity in thi
j aggregate, reaching up to the higher steps 01
j the ladder of progress till the lower ones ari
1 first passed. but it is not necessary, whik
acting upon this plan, that we should entire!j
forget thaylmtototoigher steps. no doubt i
would measures
lower steps in progress
should at once be adopted. but can this be 1
does not all past history bear witness to the
fact, that this is not the order of progression 1
it would have been better had europe at onc<
emerged from the despotism of charlemagne,
into the light and liberty of last year, instead
of passing through those long and dreary agea
of priestcraft, kingcraft, and feudalism. ii
would have been better had the eogliah magna
chart a, instead of serving to give power and
splendor to the few, been a declaration of the
rights, and aimed.at the well-being of the
many. it would have been better, had the
declaration of and the consti
tution of these states, when they first threw
off the yoke of a foreign power, secured for
every inhabitant, without distinction of color
or condition, the same amount of liberty,
rights and privileges. all this, we can now
affirm, would have been so much gained—that
ia, if the people's minds had been prepared
for carrying out those measures. the fact
that no quicker progress has been made,
seems to be a sufficient evidence that the
world was not sooner ready for it. we have
in the institutions existing in any country at a
given period, aa exhibition of the progress
made by that country. savageism ‘and can
nibalism give place to incipient civihtation.—
that again yields to a higher manifestation of
the social compact. the ammus of one peo
ple shows itself ia a despotism; that of an
other in a limited monarchy that of a third
in a republic. the people of that country in
which the limited monarchy prevails, may
mwanamy he supposed to be ia advance of
those living under a despotism; aad those
again under the republic, in advance of other,
because the feat is the highest expemioa ol
what seems to be an incontrovertible truth—
■amply, the right of every man, supposing
government bidfepsaasklf to any how, and
by whom be dboald to governed. bet a
then no form of ike wcm! cow poc
higher stifl tkm either of tee! we may
rwo—my eondade that there is, because the
eery highest foil b to secure for every man an
equality of rights— foils even to secure for
sows their inalienable right to life 1 liberty,
and the gamut of happiness." (internment
is, a* it were, only the shadow 6f the roan,
and most change aa the light shines into him.
as he grows, his garment must be enlarged.
that which fitted him yesterday, may cramp
and confine him to-morrow. he cannot re
main stationary. progress is the law of his
being; but that progress most be made
gradually, and in the right order! there are
other reforms, and other inodes of effecting
good, besides the anu-slarery reform. in so
far aa these can be carried forward simultane
ously with, and without retarding the anti
slavery movement, they are deserving of sup
port. bat as it would be absurd to bestow
great care and attention, and to lavish gifts
upon the man who is merely hungry, while
the destitute and dying are left to perish so
does it appear to be worse than absurd—it is
wicked, that while slaveiy exists in this or
any land, it should be overlooked, and the
attention devoted to other and minor evils.—
let this monster wrong be removed, and then
the way will be clear for the removal of oth
ers. how long would this sin, great and
powerful as it is, be able to withstand the
united and persevering assaults of all those
who are exerting themselves, in the various
benevolent enterprises for ‘ho
condition ot the sinning and the suffering
not for a month—scarcely for a day. with
the religious and moral sentiment of the land,
bitraght to bear upon it in ail its irresistible
influence, slavery, and its attendant prejudice,
would be cast out at once and forever, as chaff
before the w ind, or as the last snows of win
ter melt away, under the warm, life-giving;
sun-light of the coming spring.— j. d.
a prediction.
the london times has the following re
marks upon the proceedings iu congress in
reference to the “peculiar institution.” they
were written soon after mr. goti’s resolution
came up for discussion, and before the intelli
gence of its disgraceful strangulation had
reached europe. this year” heaven
grant that the prediction may he fulfilled
the arm of the oppressor is strong, and the
day of right’s triumph may be delayed hut
come it will for a’ that,” and at a not very
distant day. let us labor and wait.—j. d.
washington, the capital of the union,
and the spot where these discussions [on sla
very] are held, in order to exclude it from the
interest and factions of any one state, stands
in a small quadrilateral territory cut out ol
maryland and virginia, called the district ol
columbia. this sanctum sanctorum of the
federal union still harbors the slavedealer.—
washington is the metropolis of slavery. the
president, the senators, and representatives
meet in a den of oppression, within the sounti
of the lash and the cry of the helpless victim,
man is a chattel on the very spot which calli
itself the centre of freedom.
as far as we can judge from the effect of
popular decisions in the british house of
commons, we should pronounce it impossible
that this stigma shall long survive in the un
ion. every year strikes another blow at sla
very, and brings another* adhesion to the
cause of freedom. last year we saw the
french islands emancipated. this year—but
we will not venture to predict, when the fu
ture is a continual surprise. it is evident,
however, that in the union there is a decided
majority of representatives, people and states
against this notorious blot on the escutcheon
of republican liberty, and that all feel them
selves concerned to wipe it out. such a
feeling cannot but triumph over local interests
and the letter of the canstitution, unless we
overrate the earnestness of the american
character.”
influence of slavery. —an edition of
sterne's works, it is said, will shortly be pub
lished by some miserable doughface in boston,
with the word “oppression” substituted for
slavery.” we shall have that passage—
o slavery, disguise it as we will, still thou
art a bitter draught!” reading, “oh, oppres-'
sion, &c.! great is the image which
nebuchadnezar, the king has set up' even
the marrowless bones of the dead are forced
to bow down before it. will the press have
as much to say against this alteration of the
author's sense, as they have against the or
thographial alterations of the harpers it is
doubtful if sterne would know, or if he did
know, would acknowledge, his own child un
der the boston disguise. macauley would
not, it is likely, have much difficulty in doing
both by liis, under the dress furnished it by
the harpers.— j. d.
financial reform in england.—mr.
cobden proposes a plan of financial reform
by which h« says as good a government can
be produced for forty-five million pounds, as
lord john russell charges fifty-five millions
for. the times sneers at the proposal, and
speaks of putting the letter by the side of the
literature which speculates on the possibility
of there being by and by such not very likely
things as talking birds and flying men. forty
four millions of pounds for the privilege of
being governed well, even that does ap
pear a considerable price. it seems possible
that the “job,” considering llie worth of it,
might be done for even leas than that. there
’ate’ same rather •nrraonibie mortals an this
side of the atlantic who have thought james
k. polk's government dear at a fourth of that
priee. 1 have even heard of some speculative
theorists who are willing to try if they can’t
get along without a government at all. they
think it rather strange that so many should
consent to pay ao much for what appears to
them to be worse than useless. is it not
possible, if thin notion becomes at all preva
lent, that there will be cheaper and better
government, and lens of it* government
w made for man, and cot man for the gov
ernment. it mast be changed and modified
to aoit man’s wants, and eeaae to dip and pare
bis ideas to sen its renmrementm.—j. d.
j. 8. becumum, in a letter to mr. cob
den, exhorts people everywhere to ad vacate
and practise the abolition o f the one of all in-
in sir ming drinks. he says, that *in the
united kingdom the amount squandered on
unwholesome and) unnecessary arti
cles tteeeds £50,000,000 per ann.—a fond
ent of which the whole national debt might
be pud off in leas than sixteen years, and the
iatemat (£28,000,000) which baf§» like a
nmad the neck of the notion, might
k® nwefl away at ones and for ever.—j. a.
two mxtom have been aem lu the inane
a»fhun in pfcihddpbta, who hero none mad
wwfmom of the california eifpseot.
the amkeica* miwowtiti.’* miauwr.
—the second number of thia periodical his
come to hand. it increases in spirit and
bauty. this number opens with an inter
esting story of lore and villafty, called the
golden speculation,” in which crime and
cunning meet with tnerited discomfiture and
disgrace. this is followed by mrs. rich
ardson and the british officer*,” a tale of the
american revolution; then comes a true-to
life narrative, called the old and the
new;” the commencdßnt of “the egyptian
masque, jl tale of fhe crescent city;”
hints on convcnation,” an interesting and
instructive article, by h. t. tuckermtn 3
second chapter on george washington;
“the christmas gathering “the meeting
of-arnold and andre ,'f* the headsman ot
antwerp" continued rome’s three glo
nous days,” the poot man,” a sketch
showing how one may be passing poor,
though possessing abundance besides sev
eral smaller prose pieces and original poems,
also, an original song entitled “the remem
bered soog,” with the music—quite a lengthy
catalogue, making altogether a very readable
number. the engravings iu this number are
—mrs. richardson and the brittah officers;
arnold and andre; washington leaving his
mother to join the british army; and the
chateau de st. point, the residence of the
french poet-politician, lamartine. the moral
tone of this magazine is healthy; and it is to
be hoped it will help to displace some of that
pink-cover and gilt-edged trash w hich is fill
ing the heads of the youth of both sexes with
miserable romance, and mawkish sentiment'
alism. this evil is growing to a fearful ex
tent; and every publication which supplies
the demand for light literature, without at the
same time vitiating the taste and corrupting
the morals, is deserving of extensive patron
age. the only way in which the abuse can
be checked, is by making that which is truly
good and beautiful, attractive. one really
good tale, having a good moral, will do more
to effect this, than a thousand sermons against
the perusal of improper books. the metro
politan magazine is edited by william lan
don, and published by israel post, 25‘i
broadway, new york.— l. d.
strange and not strange.—tt is strange
that so many american women can submit to
be cooped up day alter day, week after week,
in a confined room, in the company of
those abominable close stoves which seem to
have been invented expiessly for the purpose
of giving- people headaches—scarcely ever
once in a month breathing a mouthful of
fresh air, or taking five minutes' healthful
exercise, but inhaling all the time a close
iron-heated atmosphere, ranging from eighty
to a hundred. it is not strange, if, after doing
this, they should go out sleigh-riding till well
nigh frozen, on a day when the thermometer
is somewhere in the neighborhood of zero,
—that we should hear of so many dying of
consumption. they could not, if they werp
to try, invent a more sure mode of bringing
about that result. such treatment would kill
a horse, llow can nervous and delicate wo
men expect to endure it? “disobey and
suffer!”—j. d.
cholera had been rather on the increase
in britain at the date of last arrival. the
board of health had published a statement
showing the number of cases throughout the
country, from the commencement, to have
been 8,929; deaths 3,83 ft; recoveries 2,211
under treatment or result not stated 2,782.
rate of interest in wisconsin.— both
branches of the legislature of wisconsin
have, by decided majorities, passed the an
nexed law regulating the rate of interest in
that state:
sec. 1. any rate of interest agreed upon
by parties in contract shall be legal and valid.
nc. 2. when no rate of interest is agreed
upon or specified in a noie or other contract
seven per cent, per annum shall be the lep a i’
rate. k
disgraceful scene.-hyer, the victor of
the brutal prizefight that came of at rock
island yesterday afternoon was in this city
this afternoon. on going to the exchange, to
send away a telegraphic despatch, his ap
peart nee was greeted by the vociferous shouts
of a large crowd, who almost oanied him
from the cab .hat he was into the
the vehicle p 9tair9 back again tu
the cab containing him and two or three
of his friends, passed the office of the bulletin,
on its way to miller’s hotel, chesnut street,
at a quarter before two o’clock, p.m., followed
by a crowd who seemed positively wild and
frantic with excitement. the sudden coming
to town of general taylor would hardly have
occasioned a greater furor. a more dis
graceful scene we never witnessed in vliils
d^phia.— phtl. buhim,
the hill to restore gov. dorr to the enjoy
ment of his civil rights was lost in the r i
house ol representatives last wednsday bv
the casting vote of the speaker. 7
if the speculator misses his aim, every body
cries out, “he’s a fool,” and sometimes, “he’s
a rogue f! he succeeds, they besiege his
door and demand his daughter in marriage
r l° take ink out of lintn.—take a
piece ot tallow, melt it, and dip .he spoiled
part of the linen into the melted tallow. it
may then lie washed, and the spots will
disappear without injuring the imen.
a youngster beiog asked bow many gan
ders there are, replied, “three, sir—the
masculme, feminine and neutral.” “well
done, ray son; now define them?” “the
masculine is men; the feminine is women
ami the neutral is old maids and politicians.”
“hallo, there,” said a fanner to an irish
man busily eogaged at one of bis cherry trees,
“by what right do you take those cherries
ld '‘‘‘r -r
eatzsz*** tmom
m jjfcubionaue clothe. *t x™
no shirt; a cane
iam htt r**outii.
ml drink, at
djtltfo that the we
-swam euo exported last year
2w.w* have laid in a large
•tock with the expectation to export a larger
amount the coming season.
the accumulation of wealth into masses,
the consequent destitution of large portions ot
•mmly, and the division* which are thus tr
tarnished (a tween hass and class, constitute a
hnrharous to endure— -f t amit
philosophy can bake no m
procure a* u. cod, ’,mwomh«j|
which then in mole practical, uhmoaephy m
economy 1
the spring time of life
ivw is perhaps no simile of more frequent
application, or which contain* ntoie uuth,
;hin that w hich compare* the season of youth
in the life of man with that of sprlhg in the
outward creation. not only is there in youth
hoovancy and the brightness, the ever
rhangmg sunshine and shade of the venial
hours hot there is also a ytik closer resem
blance in tin* bunting forth of the fresh young
me. and the rapidity and activity of its de
velopment. in natare, ami in the soul of
man, spring is a wonderful and beautiful sea
*on. feselon, in ins telemachus, tells us.
that they e&v in spring in the cold regions ot
scvthia, that they hear the noise of vegeta
tion.” this is but a figure of speech to sig
nify the rapid change they experience from
w inter to summer; but it i* »f 81 equal
application to the marvellous heart of man
as to those countries where nature taken but
tew days to throw off her snowy mantle, and
clothe herself m her green and glorious sum
mer garb.
have we not all felt something of it when
the fairy dreams of childhood are last melting
away before the -timmer breath of truth and
reality, and a new light is shed upon all
things— when we wake up to the reality of
life, and recognize, for the first lirne, our true
relations to our fellow-men, to nature, and to
]jke the enchanted halls ol trost,'
where the iee-kmg loves to revel, which fade
away with the moon-beams that lighted them, j
in the ruddy rooming ray, so ihe pictures and
visions ot our infancy vanish away one atter
anoiher; and we have hardly time to mourn
thetr lot*, ere we discern by the growing
light of day, yet fairer and far loftier scenes,
which our health tell us are realities— sternly
oiand mountain summits, which lead the eve
heavenward, and a voice within is heard cry
mg, excelsior then is the period of
earnest and high aspiration a deep, burning,
and almost painful longing pervades 0111
w hole being; a tempestuous torrent of thought
and feeling passe? through the soul. w e fee)
attracted in some directions, and repelled in
others, we scarcely know or inquire where
fore, till at length, as in a glorious vision, the
unknown somewhat” after which we have
been striving becomes dearly defined lietore
our mental eye, and in the far-off' regions of
the infinite, the misty yet god-ltke forms of]
beauty, truth and love are revealed to our!
longing gaze. but like the vision of alaslor, i
these soul-ravishing forms elude our waking
grasp, and we have long and painful wander
ings to endure ere we find, to our heart scon
tent, the object of our earnest search. like
the wilderness traveller in a dry and thirsty
land,” we are incessantly deceived by the
transitory splendors of the mirage which
seems to bear the form we long for, but flies
away as we approach, and leaves us nought
but the barren sands oi the desert. r l bus it
is willi us whilst we seek for the perfection of
beauty, truth, and love in the outward and
earthly sometimes they seem to stand re
vealed before us in the wondrous creations of
the human intellect and imagination some
times in the radiant forms and hues that na
ture wears when she lias passed through the
alembic of man’s mind, and become trans
figured on the canvass or in the almost
breathing marbleagain we think we have
found all that our hearts lung for in the grand
simplicity, the surpassing loveliness, or the
wild sublimity that clothe our earthly abiding
place as with a garment and at other mo
ments we believe to find concentrated in some
human form, and heart, and mind, that which
we have vainly sought elsewhere. but yet
alter all these w anderings, the mind returns
dissatisfied to itself, with only increased long
ings, as the traveller proceeds on his desert
pilgrimage with a yet more burning thirst, as
he passes well after well that yields him no
water, or only an impure and limited supply.
but we are not long left to wander hope
lessly fur like the same traveller who, well
nigh oulwearied with pursuing the deceitful
mirage, pr hastening to the dried up well,
comes at last upon gushing fountains of pure,
abundant water, so the thought—say rather
the knowledge, rushes upon the soul, that all
that it has sought so long, wearied and
thirsting in the deserts ot earth—even the
glorious perfection of beauty, truth, and
l o ve—is to be found m god—in him alone—
and in hint forever. thus an inexhaustible
fountain is opened to man, and he is invited
there to drink and satisfy those ardent long
ings for which none of the shallow wells of
earth was sutficient. thus, then, the aspira
tions that burn m the soul in the season of
youth, tend, if rightly followed, upward; and
by leading to god, prove that they come from
his hand, and that he implanted them for the
well-being of his creatures and his own glory.
the germans have given to these longings
the name of heiinweh,” or home-sickness; j
and it is these which have originated thej
thoughts of pre-existence, which, like aj
formless but heaven tinged cloud, float j
around every mind that is turned inward to'
comprehend its own mysterious being. for
the question arises, w hence comes this heim
wt*h, if we have no memory, however sha-j
dowy and indistinct, of that fair fatherland j
towards which we are journeying f this
query is amongst the many whose solution is
hid from us by the veil of mortality, and can
never be satisfied rill the veil ts laid aside for
ever.
thou hast the dew of thy youth,’ ex
claimed the poet prophet of israel, when,
in rapt and glorious vision the redeemer ot j
man was revealed 10 his adoring gaze. very
precious is this dew of our youth, and blessed
aie they upon whose spirits it remains long.
alas! that it should be so often and so early
absorbed, even where it has beemed most
abundant, by the glaring sunshine of pros-j
parity, or sullied by the dust of care, that i
alike fall upon the lugh-ways and by-ways of,
ide 1 naught but the overshadowing wing!
ut our heavenly father’s love, or, it jltj
please to appoint it, the cloud of souow and
trial, can preseive to the'soul this early dewy
freshness. l oo soon jhe high ideals and i
loity aims that till the youthful heart are lost,'
amid the thronging interests, the fiery con j
tests, ihi selfish dealings of the world.— i
happy ib it for those w ho, having once tasted
tire pure streams of ihe ktcrnal fountain
ftjeet forever ihe brackish waters of the
wilderness—who, having gazed once upon
the transcend ant ladiauceof the beauty, truth
kt *d lot« of guo, are so ravished bv ibe
dazzling view, hint heiicetorill the meteor j
gleam* of earthly pteaaare appear in their
true light; tad even life’* happiest sad most
heatenlike jo?* only as star*, given by a
father's hand to illuminate the night of earth,
and fade away in the dawn of the eternal
morning. h. m. p.
!i«|f<il>uiv or new jener.
a lull was pres*© ted by mr. dill, from
alfred gibbs campbell, of the city of tren
ton. on last thursday, asking a aaeeaaioa of
the mate of new jemey from the union, on
the (pound that inhabitant# of new jersey,
who are unfortunately negroes, cannot travel
south but with great danger to their liberties'
and lives—that northern men dare not ea--
press their honest sentiments at the sooth j
without the same danger, in contravention
with the spirit and letter of the constitution. j
the petition described the progresaef sothern
slavery. it was exceedingly respectful in its
tone.
mr kyerson moved that the petition be’
returned to the petitioner. it was a disgrace)
to the house and to the state.
mr. nixon having been engaged in ita'
reading, asked whether it contained anything:
disrespectful to the house; if not, we are
bound to receive it. he would advocate the
most enlarged right of petition.
mr ryerson was opposed to countenancing
any petition asking the dissolution of the
union.
mr. redmond was surprised at the motion
of mr. kyerton. denying as it did, the right
to petition respectfully on any subject, or
from any source.
mr. nixon said no one in the house could
go further than he against the sentiments con
tained in the petition. it breathed treason in
its very face yet the right of petition was a
sacred one. we are not the tribunal to de
cide what are grievances. the people are.
we must listen to their petitions, and either
grant or deny them.
mr. ryerson replied, when we first took
our seat upon this floor, we took an oath to
support the constitution of the united states,
and this state how then can we entertain this
without violating these oaths l to receive it,
implies an endorsement of its sentiments.
mr. redmond remarked that this case
stands in the right of petition, which has
been so much discussed in congress, and like
the matter there,it was clear that our reception
of it would be no evidence of our approval of
its sentiments.
the motion to return it to the petitioner
was agreed to —26 to 13.
mr. editor would give you the mystic
interpretation of the above petition, were i
able. this |>etition is rather difficult of com
prehension. 1 do not believe it rightly set
forth its object. is jersey so much better
than the other slaveholding states, that we
should desire separation would it allay her
prejudice against us? would it emancipate
her slaves? would it. open her seminaries,
colleges and universities to the colored people*
would the pulpit, the bar, and the legislative
halls be opened to those who were worthy,
without distinction of caste? i think not.—
we do not love new jersey because she is
our home neither do we venerate her be
cause she is our country. she has never
treated us as men. when she “shakes off the
old man and his deeds," then we will begin
to trust iu her. she has always been an
ardent supporter of tbe“ peculiar institution”
—a watch-dog for the southern plantations
and unless she shows her faith by her works,
we will not believe in her.
i do not understand the petition. what
.was the petitioners object? will he give up
more light? j. s. rook.
salem, n. j., feb. 14, 1849.
florence settlement.
agreeably to notice, mr. stephen myers,
general agent of the florence settlement
company, delivered an address in the second
congregational church, pittsford, mass., on
the evening of the bth inst. although at the
time it was snowing very fast, and the wind
blowing a perfect hurricane, the attendance
was quite large and the enthusiasm which
seemed to pervade all present with reference
to the proposed settlement, argued much in'
favor of the success of the cause. the ad
dress occupied nearly two hours in the deliv
ery, and it was listened to with profound in
terest. the arguments which he (tho’
unadorned by the graceful flourishes of rhe
toric,) brought conviction to the minds of all
present. there was quite a large number
who engaged lots, and intend to move on
shortly.
the meeting was called to order by mr.
hunt. mr. david s. thomas was appointed
chairman, and andrew w. stewart secre
tary. iha following resolutions were sub
mitted to the meeting, and adopted unani
mously
resolved, that we view this movement on
the part of the colored people of the state of
new yoik, to form a settlement in the town
of florence, as worthy of our highest com
mendation, and the sympathy and unanimous
co-operation of the colored people of this town
and county.
resolved, that the opportunity presented
to the colored farmers and agriculturalists of
the county of berkshire to go out and pur
chase the lauds offered them for sale by gerrit
i smith, should be embraced by them at thq
earliest possible convenience.
resolved, that when considered in a poli
tical point of view, it is the imperative duty
of every colored man of massachusetts, who
is a lover of political equality, of civil and
religious freedom, and of free institutions in
general, to emigrate to that settlement, and
the other lands to be obtained, and join hands
wilh their colored brethren of that state to
i break down the prejudices and political ine
j qualities which ik>w hang like a pall around
j them.
resolved, that the munificence displayed
jby gerrit smith in appropriating certain
amounts of land to the oolored people of the
state of new york, and the avenue which
he has opened to the colored men of other
states to come out aud purchase, thereby
1 forming among themselves a union calculated
i to elevate their condition'mentally, morally, 1
ami politically, cannot be dwelt upon too ex- 1
travagandy. he has by these noble acts en
deared himself to the colored people through
out the united states—has, in his ardent de
sire for their elevation, become, as it were,
one of them, and for which they will ever
hold his name in grateful remembrance.
resolved, that the labors of mr. stephen
myers in tfie csuse of human progress and
elevation, and sbe address he has favored us
with tins evening, are objects alike worthy of
our sincercat ihajp* and highest consideration.
resolved, that tbs minutes of this meeting
be published m the north star, new york
tribune, and impartial citiaen, albany.
andrew stewart, sec’y.
fittsfield, mass., feb. 9, 1848.
(prow p—efc.)
“a fewd»n»■ a* di«u*«
landed at st. francisco, after a ’taros)
towin' gf five raootha. thia n owning um»'
the small eeod of the hom, i reek on. and
there oagkt to be pretty considerable some on
the other aide, to nake up for leerin' my
dry good* store and family fines in broad
traded with a down-faster, who u makin’
tracks for the settlements, with 30,000 dol
lars in his carpet-bag, for a spade, jerk,
scoop, and washin’ trough—gtrin’ 000 dollars
for the plunder, and glad to get it, as loeresse
niles flint, of salem. maw., went 750, sod
he is a 'tamal old how at a deal.
swopped my traps and blankets, s quarter
cask of pickled pork, and a demijohn of
peach brandy, whieh 1 had laid io, for sis
pounds gioooine gold. pretty considerable
smart tradin.’
totted my tools to hiram k. doughboy’s
boarding shanty, and settled with him for
blankets and board at 30 dollars per diem.
cats wampus prices here, that's a fact; but
everybody’s got more dust than he knows
what to do with.
off to the diggins with a party; mighty
small potatoes most of ’em; all sorts and
colours, and everlashn’ ragged—bay-states
men, back-woodsmen, buckeyes from ohio,
homes from kentuck, cape cod whalers,
st. francisco indians, impetus from santa
cruz, texan volunteers, philadelphia
quakers, a latter-day samt, six irish sym
pathizers, twelve yankees, as many british
ers, a squad of deserters, a blackfoot guide,
a methodist parson, and a mormon elder.
a ’tarnal nigger tried to join us, but got
cow-hided.
struck diggins, and sot to serious washin’;
girson began to ask a blesstn’, but seein’
lias t. forks, of orangeburgh, n. ca.,
netpiir miuaeir, parson cut it short off, and
we went to work, like niggers at cane liom’,
agreein’ to dig in company, and sharpe profits.
cotched the quaker sunnin’ himself, and
takin’ kink out of his back with a havannah.
convened a meetin’, cow-hided quaker, and
at it again. gold lyin’ about like earth-nuts,
and riddlin’ through the water like hail storm
in a sherry-cobbler.
sounded the conch for grub, and found
nobody got any thing, but that ’cute old coon,
zerubbabel w. peabody, of staten island,
who had brought a bag of biscuit and some
meat fixins. the varmint wouldn’t sell a
notion undei an ounce of dust, and sacked
the whole bilin.
to w ork again totted up at sundowm, and
found we’d averaged 28 dollars per man. got
back to shanty but before that darned hiram
k. doughboy would let me inside the door,
forced to pay down 30 dollars for day’s board
and lodgin.’ so wound up 2 dollars worse
than in the mornin’. calcilated to camp out
in future, cut hiram, and work on my own
hook, havin’ realized that socialism ain't no
go in gold diggin’. asked hiram why he
didn’t go out with his bowie knife and wash
ing pail. hiram sniggered, and said he
wam’t greedy, and preferred helpin’ folks in
his shanty. hiram usen’t to be such a oon
carned fool.
started alone—havinmpwopped the gold 1
got from down-easier yesterday for one
blanket, half quarter-cask of pork, and half
demijohn of brandy. must convene that i’ve
lost 50 per cent, by bargains; but a cargo of
new diggers having just come in from panama,
great demand for such fixins. and forced to
give tvhat that old flint of a down-easter
chose to ask he’s made considerable some
by bis trade, that’s a fact, and 1 doubt if he
could have done better at the diggins.
made a great day—bavin’ sacked 40 dollars
at least. got sorter lost, and found, when i
tracked back to the tree where i’d cached my
plunder, that those ’tarnal ingines bad ab
squatulated with blanket, pork, and brandy.
luckily i’ve got my tools.
spent the night under a cotton tree; mighty
sharp set in the mornin’, having eat nothin’
since yesterday at 12. struck the trail of
zerubbabel vv. peabody, and traded with
him for some bread and pork doin's for which
the everlaslin’ old skinflint made me come
down cruel, cleanin' me out of all i'd raised
yesterday.
zerubbabel says lie ain’t diggin’, but goin’
about with a provision and liquor store. it’s
amazin’ how long-headed men like zerubbabel
can be such darned idiots.
i’ve got out of the track of the settlement,
and into a prime diggin’—all to myself—
where the lumps of gold run as big as pigeons’
egg 9, and lie as thick as hailstones in broad
way, after a come-down in the fall. but i’m
darned weak for want of grub, and so rheu
matic with campin’ qut that it’s quite a
caution.
two days without seein’ food —gold get 9
more abundant than ever.
(extract from the st. francisco star.)
yesterday some indians from the up
diggings came to the settlement with a man
whom they had found lying insensible further
up the st. sacramento than any of our diggers
have yet penetrated.’ he had a bag by his
side, which contained 18,000/. in dust and
lumps of the precious metal; but the indians
exacted most of it for bringing him back to
the settlement. he was fearfully emaciated;
and in another 12 hours the adventurous trea
sure-seeker mu9t have perished of hunger.”
there are many persona who become the
more attractive and agreeable the more eyes
there are upon them, not from vanity, but
because the general approbation gives them
confidence, and excites them. others are far
the more pleasing when in the company of
but one person, if their ideas and tastes agree.
this much depends on w hat talents are pos
sessed, even on the physical powers. he
who is clever, who can give strilung answers,
who has an elegant way of expressing his
thoughts, or even a finely-toned voice, is
quite at ease in a large circle. when serious
ness and sensibility are predominant, when
the conversational powers are not sparkling,
and when the voice is low, then few listeners
are preferred.
save the corn cobs!—the editor of the
poughkeepsie journal and eagle says he has
used corn cobs in lieu of charcoal, for more
than a year, and remarks from our expe
rience in ihe use of cobs, we are convinced
they are worth quite as much, bushel for
bushel, as the best charcoal, the same quan
tity will kindle a fire in less time.” if this
is the case, it would be well for our farmers
to bring them into the city for sale.
excellence.—the true way to excel io
any work, is to propose the brightest and
most perfect example for our imitation. we
must improve by the attempt, even though we
fall short of the full share of perfection
tillotson.
the begging profession.’’ at a
recent meeting of the wesleyan missionary
society, the rev. mr. branch said tint a
short time since he visited a room in west
minster, where he saw a woman with a dying
child in her arms. commiserating the wretch
ed creature’s condition, he inquired into her
histoiy and tier means of livelihood, and, m
answer to his questions, she replied, oh,
sir, my sufferings are great, and so are those
of my child; but when my child is gone, 1
know not what to do.” but, observed mr.
branch, 44 it will he a happy release for you
and your child, aa you can make no exertioos
while you are burdened with ben *‘oh,
dear, sir,” said the mother, 44 when she’s
gone, 1 11 have to pay »d. a-day for another
child, while she ouats we nothing. unless i
do so, i’d earn nothing by begging,' for it is
the children that excite compassion.” in
another room in the house mr. branch found
forty beggars, vagabonds and rogues, male
and ternsle, young, old, lame, and blind,
gathered round a fire, all relating their ex
ploits, and pfenning for their next attacks.
if you wish to be happy keep busy. idle
new is harder work than ploughing a great
deal. there is more fun in sweating an hour
than in yawrung a ceutury,
cttfptefs f turn english papers.
the susuaatnaljttnwupii.—the feuow
inf diactiptiun of thkfcst experiment with
the submarine telegraph, fmo the london
times:
upwards of two miles of win wen car
ried out in a small bos! sod submerged in the
ses along the mouth of the harbour and at
the side of the pier. one eod of the wire
was connected *ith a telegraphic instrument
on the deck of the steamer, and the other
end with the telegraph wire commits testing
with london. the iriangemeats hating
been completed, about half-past 12 the tele
graph was placed in cooununtcatioa with
london, and a message was sent to the
chairman of the south-eastern cotqpany to
apprise him that the experiment was entirely
successful. a private message from the tiroes,
reporter was then made front london to mr.
walker, (the inventor) on board the steamer.
both messages passed through the couple of
miles of wire payed oat" at sea and in the
hatbour. a continued correspondence was
then kept up between the princess clemen
tine and the stations of london. ashford,
and tunbridge, which was continued with
the roost perfect success at intervals for three
or four hours, messages being interchanged
between the steamer and all those stations.
the bells at the electric telegraph offices at
tunbridge and london-bridge were vigorous
ly rung by the instrument on board the
princess clementine, and no greater difficulty
was experienced in making the signals with
the submarine wire than with the ordinary
wires on land.
the wire employed was of the total length
of 3,600 yards, and was made in accordance
with a suggestion from mr. walter, in
order to obviate the difficulty experienced in
working the telegraph wises m tunnels, where
they are exposed, not to the etfhcts of damp
and yater merely, but to water impregnated
with earthy matters and with acid vapours
from the engine, causing a communication be
tween the wires and allowing portions of the
current to escape to the earth. the size of
the wire used is no. 16 copper wire, and its
thickness when covered with gutta percha is
nearly a quarter of an inch in diameter.
an extraordinary case of self-destruction
has just occurred at berlin. the dead body
of a man was found at daylight, by ihe con
stabulary, in a sitting position, on one of the
benches in the thier-garten. from an ex
amination, it appeared that the man must
have placed a small packet in his mouth, set
light to it, and thus blown his head to pieces.
—birmingham mercury.
a sublime character.— at the county
petty sessions, on friday last, a young wo
man, summoned for stealing wearing apparel,
produced the following character to the
bench:—“the bearer mary chasen acted
as house peeper for me one year her char
acter was very sublime and exemplary to the
capacity of any indevedual temple martin,
december 20, 1648,” —notwithstanding the
sublimity of her character, the young lady
was committed for trial. —kilkenny journal.
the operative classes in paris.— la
prcsse states that on the sth of january there,
were in paris 24, 833 operatives of various
crafts lodging in separate establishments. of
this number 16,701 were employed, and 6,132
out ot work. in the month of december,
1648, the number was 26,150, of whom 18'-
231 were employed, and 7,910 unemployed.
it is needless to observe that the operatives
lodging in separate establishments represent
only minimum part of the operative classes of
paris.
douglas jerrold is, we understand, quit
ting the editorship of the paper establishd in
his name. the tone of its currency articles
was sufficient to neutralize the power of almost
any writer seeking to serve the true cause of
the people. punch will doubtless gain by
bis undivided attention to its political articles.
weekly dispatch. a.
a young gentleman from australia, who
was on a visit to his friends in scotland, died
at goven from inhaling chloroform. ills
great toe-nail hail grown into the flesh a
surgeon was to operate upon it, and chloro
form was administered the patient almost
instantly expired- —birmingham mercury.
the loss caused by game, says a not
tingham paper, upon a farm is estimated at
3s. per acte —no triffling addition to the rent;
but this is not all—the poacher costs the
farmer, if in southwell house of coriection,
is. 6d. per day, or 10s. 6d. per week and
then, if he has a wife and family, those also
have to be supported in the union-house, at
his expense also. such is the working of
the game laws.
chaps. a young lady” writes to know
how she is to avoid chapped hands during the
cold weather. we hardly know*. if she
attracts the chaps by her eyes, she must expect
some difficulty in getting them off her hands.
bum. mercury.
a guano embalmed child. —the other
day, the mummy of a male child, found im
bedded in a vast deposit of peruvian guano,
near africa, was brought from that port to
liverpool by the barque oetavia. fn the
deposit were found three bodies, supposed to
be those of a father and mother, and this
child. the two adult bodies have been for
warded to the british museum. —liverpool
journal.
an irish california. —an association has
been formed to work the gold mines ofj
wicklow and wexford, as the discoveries in j
california have turned attention to gold-seek-,
ing. it is announced that more than twen-j
ty trials, during three months’ labour, have
pioved that aunfeious deposit in ireland oc-
cupies an area of upwards of 100 square
miles in the counties of wicklow and ex-!
ford. the gold is found in qaartz and black
iron sand, as on the western coast of ameri-,
ca; and it is said that by an improved method
of working, sixteen men and women can
wash 100 tons of sand a day, at an outlay of
125.” the managing director of the associa
tion is mr. win. r. collett, who has taken
a very active part in the extension of the
railway system in ireland. irish railway
gazette.
war.— voltaire thus expresses himself on
the subject of war—“a hundred thousand
mad animals, whose heads are covered w ith
hats, advance to kill or to be killed by theif
fellow-mortals, corered with turbans. by
this strange proceedure, jthey want to know
whether a tract of land to which none of them
has any claim, should belong to a certain
man whom they call sultan f or another vihom
they call czar neither of whom ever saw, or
ever will see, the spot so furiously contended
for: and very few of those creatures w ho
thus mutually butcher •each other, ever beheld
the animal for whom they cut each other s
throats! from tune immemorial, this has
been the way of mankind almost all mtr w
earth. what an excess of madness is this:
and how deservedly might a y^ing
crush to atoms this earthly ball—the bloody
nest of such ridiculous murderers.
a significant fact.—-ah italian from
london ban been in btdeford, during the past
week vending models of the wgin mirj
and the saints, which commodities, it is saw,
have commanded a mad? safe among the
tractanan party in the chotrh. we hear
that the models are of «6u«oe bmmty, ami
fetch a guinea apiece.—-wi decern jour.
the only regeneration for ireland
argue* the turns, uke a new start
and learn to tell truth. let her prierta no
longer count hundred, for and no longer
charge upon government* the visitation* of
j (jo<i.
i it has been observed by leigh hunt that
there are two, and hot cu “”j u
community newspaper ■editor* and c ajv
drivers—who never may indulge themselves
with a holiday.
man consists in truth:
tinth he expoans hwself
t troth, be betrays himsell e speak not
here of he., boi of acting again* conviction.
the monster unveiled
“poor thing! i do feel for her.
though ibeii i perm i never saw,
yet hers seems a case of such opprea
,m* °f* hand, and such patient
suffering on the other, that one cannot
but”—
“oh, 1 daresay you'll see her in
the rooming, for she often steals oat
then, when the wretch, i suppose, is in
bed.’*
but what could have induced a
girl to tie herself to such a wisp
“well, i don’t know; the old story,
i suppose—fake appearance; for no
girl in her senses could have married
a man with his habits, if she had known
him beforehand. there is sometimes a
kind of infatuation about women, 1
allow, which seems to blind them to the
real character of the man they'are in
love with; but in thk case 1 don’t think
she could have known how he conduct
ed himself, or she certainly would have
eaused in time. oh, wretch, i
ave no patience with him
this little dialague took place in one
of those neat, bright, clean-windowed,
gauzy-curtained houses, which form so
many pretty districts within a walking
distance of the heart of the great me
tropolis, and between two ladies, the
one the mistress of the said nice-looking
cottage villa, and the other her guest,
a country matron who had just arrived
on a visit to her town fviend; and the
object of the commiseration of both
was the occupant of a larger and hand
somer villa exactly opposite, but appar
ently the abode of great wretchedness.
the following morning mrs. bray
brooke and her guest mrs. clayton
were at the window of the parlor, which
commanded a full view of the dwelling
of the unhappy mrs. williams, when
the door was opened and quietly closed
again by the lady hereself.
“there she is, poor soul,” cried
mrs. braybrooke; “only look how
carefully and noiselessly she draws the
gate after her. she seems always
afraid that the slightest noise she may
make even in the street may wake the
fellow, who is now, i dare say, sleep
ing off the effects of last night’s dis
sipation.”
mrs. clayton, with all the genial
warmth of a truly womanly heart,
looked over, and followed with her eyes
as far as the street allowed this quiet
looking, broken spirited wife, investing
the whole figure, from the neatly
tirmmed straw bonnet to the tips of the
bright little boots, with a most intense
and mysterious sympathy; then fixing
her anxious interesting gaze on the op
posite house, she, said. and how do
they live? how do people under such
circumstances pass the day? it is a
thing i cannot comprehend; for were
clayton to act in such a way, i am
sure i couldn’t endure it a week.”
it does seem scarcely intelligible,”
answered mrs. braybrooke; “but i’ll
tell you how they appear to do. she
gets up and has her breakfast by her
self—for without any wish to pry, we
can see straight through their house
from front to back.—about this time
she often comes out. i suppose, to pay
a visit or two in the neighborhood, or
perhaps to call on her tradespeople,
and you will see her by and by return,
looking up, as she approaches, at the
bedroom windows; and if the blind be
drawn up, she rushes in, thinking, i
dare say to herself. ‘how angry he
will be if he comes down and finds that
i am not there to give him breakfast
sometimes he has breakfast at twelve—
at one—at two; and i have seen him
sitting down to it when she was having
her dinner.”
“and when does he have his dinner?”
“oh, his dinner; i dare say that is a
different sort of a thing from hers, poor
woman he dines, i suppose, at a
club, or with his boon companions, or
anywhere, in fact, but at home.”
and when does he come home,
then, generally?”
at all hours. we hear him open
the little gate with his key at three,
four and five in the morning. indeed,
our milkman told susan that he has
seen him sneaking in, pale, haggard
and worn out with his horrie vigils, at
the hour decent people are seated at
breakfast.”
i wonder if she waits up for him?”
oh no, for we see the light of her
solitary candle in her room always as
we are going to bed; and you may be
sure my heart bleeds for her—poor
solitary thing i don’t know, indeed,
that i was ever so interested about any
stranger as i am about this young
creature.”
“dear, dear it is terrible sighed
the sympathizing mrs. clayton. “but
does any one visit them have they
friends, do you think?”
i don’t think he can have many
friends, the heartless fellow; but there
are a great many people calling—stylish
people, too—in carriages: and there is
he, the wretch, often with his half-slept
look, smiling and handing the ladies
out, as if he were the most exemplary
husband in the world.”
has she children? i hope she has,
as they would console her in his long
absences
“no, even that comfort is denied
her; she has no one to cheer her; her
own thoughts must be her companions
at such times. but perhaps it is a
blessing for what kind of father could
such a man make? oh, i should like 1
to know her; and yet i dread any ac- j
quaintance with her husband; bray- 1
brooke, you know, wouldn’t know such
a man.”
“my dear mary, you have made me
quite melancholy; let us go out. you
know 1 have much to see, and many
people to call upon; and here we are
losing the best part of the day in
something not much removed from
scandal.”
the ladies of course set out, saw all
the ‘loves of bonnets’ in regent street;
all the sacrifices that were being vol
untarily offered up in oxford street;!
bought a great many things for leas!
than half the original cost, made calls,
laughed and chatted away a pleasant
elating day for the country lady, who
happily for herself, forgot in the bustle
the drooping crestfallen bird who was
fretting itself away in its pretty cage
in road.
the ntxt 4*7 a laty, a friend of mrs.
clayton, who had been out when ahe
had left her card the day before, called,
and after chattiaa for aocaetime, tarmed
to mnjßrmybrooke, and coatpltmentinf
her on the situation of the house, *1
find* she said, you are a near neighbor
of a dear friend of mine, mrs. wil
liams'
'mrs williams!* exclaimed both her
hearers, pale with excitement and curi
osity; ‘mrs williams, ob, how singular
that roa should know her, poor, mis
erable creature! oh do tell us about
‘poor—miserable what can you
mean? you mistake; aj mrs wil
liams is the happiest little woman in
london.'
'oh it cannot be the same,* said mrs
bray brook e ‘i mean our opposite netgh
i bor in hawthorn villa; i thought it
i couldn't be
‘hawthorn villa!—the very house.
vou surely cannot hare seen her, or
her husband, who—
“oh the dreadful, wretched, gam
bling fellow!” interrupted mrs. bray
brooke, i would not know such a
man
“he!” in her turn interrupted her
friend mrs. ecleshall. “he a gam
bler he is the most exemplary
young man in london—a pattern of
every domestic virtue—kind, gentle,
amiable, and passionately found of his
young wife
my dear mrs. eccleshall, how can
you say all this about a man whose
conduct is the common talk of the
neighborhood; a man lost to every
sense of shame, i should suppose; who
comes home to his desolate wife at all
hours; whose only ostensible means of
living is gambling or something dis
reputable; who—
you have been most grievously
misled,”again interposed mrs. eccles
ha.ll. who can have so grossly slan
dered my excellent friend williams? he
cannot help his late hours, poor fellow.
thpt may safely be called his mis
fortune, but not his fault!” and the
good lady warmed as she spoke, till
she had to untie her bonnet and fan her
glow’ing face with her handkerchief.
his misfortune murmured mrs.
braybrooke. how can that be called
a misfortune which a man can help any
day he pleases
but he cannot help it, poor soul!
he would be too happy to spend his
evenings at home with his dear little
wife, but you know his business begins
when other people’s is over.”
then what, in heaven’s name, is
his business
why, didn’t you know he’s the
editor of a morning js'eirspaper
a young heroine.
the following remarkable and most
exciting narrative cannot fail to be
interesting to the public, and, should it
ever meet the eye of that dear young
lady to whom it relates, i am confident
the grateful mention here made of her
naval guardians, together with her own
amiable and generous disposition, will
induce a free pardon for the liberty i
have taken in thus poclaiming to the
community at large the relation of
events pre-eminently worthy of the
highest testimonial. the rainbow,
i from southampton to aden, arrived
there about the 16th ult.; captain
i arnold, her late commander, died ten
days before the ship reached that port,
and the chief mate was so habituated
i to drunkenness that he had been con
fined to his cabin several times during
the passage. the captain’s daughter,
about 16 years of age, was on board,
and after her father’s death the second
1 mate, who had assumed the command,
made a daring and insidious attempt to
entice the young lady and run away
with the ship. she indignantly and
j successfully repelled all his base and
dastardly attempts, and although suffer
ing under a painful bereavement, she
at once rushed on the quarter-deck and
made a public appeal to the ship’s crew
as british seamen, and threw herself on
their protection; this well-judged reso
lution had the desired effect, the sea
men (except two of their number, who
were led away by the second mate)
declared, with that manly feeling which
sailors have so often displayed, that
they would to a man protect her from
all harm, and told the second mate and
their misguided shipmates, in very
plain terms, that if he dared to take the
slightest liberty with their late com
mander’s daughter, they would pitch
him overboard, and any one else who
dared follow his example would share
the same fate. miss arnold then, with
great presence of mind, begged the
ships s company would grant her one
special favor; her character, her
1 manners, and the well-timed appeal
which she had already made, induced
the crew to declare their assent to any
favors she might ask. she |thenjsaid
that the safety of the ship and her own
security from insult could only be in
sured by. throwing overooard, that
instant, every drop of spirits in the ship.
without hesitation the ship’s company
consented, and, losing no time for re
flection, they forthwith got the spirits
on deck and threw every drop over
board. from that time miss arnold
had her screened cot secured near the
wheel, and slept alongside the binnacle,
and three of the crew kept a faithful
watch around her during the remainder
of the voyage. these faithful guar
dians of one of our beloved counuy
women never failed to evince the ut
most respect and preserve the most
rigid decorum, honorable in every
point of view to themselves, and tc
that charge which they had pledged
themselves to undertake. miss arnold
wrote a statement of all these occur
rences, and forwarded it to captain
haines, on the ship’s arrival, whenthe
second mate and the disaffected men
were immediately arrested and sent to
ei. the chief mate had indulged
if to such an excess, that after
the captain s death, and the absence oi
all means of resort to his favourite
stimulants, he was perfectly useless.
miss arnold has been well educated,
and is an amiable, unaffected person;
her strength of mind and energy oi
deportment need no further comment;
she became the welcome guest of cap
tain thomas, it aden, and every possi
ble attention was shown to this noble
minded lady by the whole socsetv there
her dignified and virtuous conduct u
beyond ill pnm, tad m w( u wort j,j
um highest honor and roward which
can pooothlj be bestowed, whiiot the
exemplary conduct of the rainbow’a
devoted crew ie deoagfing of every
encomium. i ahali ewkvor to obtain
their names, and they any one and all
rely on my endeavours to serve them,
should either or tne whole of them (all
in my way.—l mi air, your obedient
servant, crikis. bibs*. —madras oct.
18, 1848.— mtdrmi sftcudor,
alexander selkirk, the ori
ginal robinson crusoe.
he was born at leghorn in the
north of scotland, in 1677. having
gooe to sen in hia youth, and in the
year 1708 being sailing-master of the
ship cinque ports, capt. stradling,
bound for the south seas, he was put
on shore of the island of juan fernan
dez, aa a punishment for mutiny. in
that solitude he remained four years
and (bur months, from which he was at
last relieved and brought to england,
by captain woods rogers. he had
with him on the island his clothes and
bedding, wi'.h a firelock, some powder,
bullets, and tobacco; a hatchet,
knife, kettle, his mathematical instru
ments, and a bible. he built two huts
of pimento trees, and covered them
with long grass, and in a short time
lined them with skins of goats which he
bad killed with his musket, so
long as hjs powder lasted, (which at
first was but a pound,) when that was
spent, he caught them by speed of foot.
having learned to produce fire by rub
bing two pieces of wood together,,
he dressed his victuals in one of his
huts, and slept in the other, which was
at some distance from his kitchen. a
multitnde of rats disturbed his repose,
by gnawing his feet and various parts
of his body, which induced him to feed
a number of cats for his protection.
in a short time these became so tame
that they would lie about him in hun
dreds, and soon delivered him from his
enemies, the rats. upon his return, he
declared to his friends that nothing
gave him so much uneasiness as the
thought that when he died, his body
would be devoured by those very cats
he had with so much care tamed and
fed. to divert his mind from such
melancholy thoughts, he would some
times dance and sing among his kids
and goats; at other times retire to«devo
tion. his clothes and shoes were soon
worn out by running through the woods.
in the want of shoes he found little in
convenience as the soles of his feet be
came so hard that he could run every
where without difficulty—as to clothes,
he made himself a coat and cap out of
goat skins, and sewed them with thongs
of the same, cut into proper form with
a knife, his only needle was a nail.—
when his knife was worn to the back,
he made others as well as he could, of
some iron hoops that had been left on
shore, by beating them thin, and grind
ing them on stones. by his long se
clusion from intercourse with men, he
had so far forgot the use of speech,
that the people on board of capt
rogers*9hip could scarcely understand
him, for he seemed to speak his words
by halves. the chest and musket
which selkirk had with him on the
island, are now in posoession of his
grand-nephew, john selkirk, weaver
at large. —from sir john sinclair's ac
count of scotland.
a good one. —there is an anecdote
that william ladd, the “apostle of
peace,” used to tell upon himself with
infinite gusto. when the temperance
movement first came into notice, mr.
ladd, though an ardent “reformer,”
was not quite prepared to go the entire
pledge. he was willing to eschew
rum, gin, brandy, “sour cider,” and
all that; but he couldn’t go the aban
donment of his wine, his rich, mellow,
heart-warming wine in fact, he had
grave doubts about the possibility of
getting “sawed” upon the generous
fluid. his whie cellar was getting low;
but every body was signing the pledge,
and it must be replenished in a shady
way, or not at all. being at portland
[about this time, he bought a barrel of
fine old wine, and employed “uncle
’siah,” a well known teamster to haul
it to minot, saying
“here, take this barrel of “cid”
with the other articles.”
he reached home first, and alter
seeing the “oil” carefully deposited in
the cellar, he came to the door to settle
for the hauling.
“well, uncle’siah,” said the cap
tain, rubbing his hands, “i really wish
i had something good for you to drink;
but the temperance folks are making
such a confounded noise, we a—a—
have to banish it entirely from our
houses.”
but “uncle ’siah” had-already a bit
of a brick in his hat, and was holding
himself rather unsteadily by the wheel
its n-n-no m-m-raatter, cappen,”
he hiccupped, n-n-n-not the least kuc
kuc conse-hic-sequense conce id
don’t need any—l w-w-was dry, b-b-b
-but i took a g-g-good swig out of your
csc-cask. its ca-hic-apital et/, cappen!
pure w-w-winter strained, and no m-m
-mistake the captain came out a
rank tee-totalier at themext temperance
meeting.
wet feet.—l have only had three
pair of boots for the last six years, (no
shoes) and i think i shall not require
any more for the next six years to
come. the reason is that i treat them
in the following manner; i put a pound
of tallow and a half pound of rosin in a
rrt on the fire; when melted and mixed,
warm the boots and apply the hot
stuff with a painter’s brush until neither
•ole nor upper leathers will suck any
nwre if it is desired that the boots
should immediatety take a polish, dis
solve an ounce of wax in spirits of tur
pentine to which add a teaspoonful of
lamp black. a day after the boots
have been treated with the tallow and
rosin, rub over them this wax in tur
pootio®. but not before the fire. thus
the exterior will have a coat of wax
alone, and shines like a mirror. tal
low or any other grease becomes ran
cid, and rots the stitching as well as
leather; but the rosin gifts it an an
tiseptic quality which preserves the
whole. boots and shoes should be so
large as to admit of cork soles. cork
is so bad a conductor of beat that with
it in boots the feet are always warm on
the coldest stone floor—mechanics magazine