An Address to the colored men of Connecticut
From the State Convention, held at New Ha
rm, September 1 2th and 13 th, 1849.
Brethren It is unnecessary to set
forth before your minde the particulars
of our political condition in the State of
Connecticut. We are wronged and
our wrongs are matter of daily and hu
miliating experience. We are disfran
chised. Our manhood and citizenship,
thus are assailed at a vital point. And
this was done by the authority of the
State. When freemen, irrespective of
color, had enjoyed on equal terms, the
elective franchise for one hundred and
fifty years, under the Charter of a King,
n line was drawn proscriptive, unnatu
ral and unjust, under a republican State
Constitution But no authority can
sanctify injustice and oppression. The
drapery of the law, cannot conceal
their monstrous forms, nor shield them
from the darts of truth. Thirty years
have we been disfranchised. But our
disfranchisement, odious enough in it
self, is the prolific source of other forms
of proscription. It is a monster that
multiplies itself upon us in each new
form increasedly repulsive, obtruding
in our very path of enterprise, knowl
edge, virtue and religion, until many
have turned backward in despair from
all the highways of progress. Two
years ago, when Justice uttered her
voice throughout Connecticut, and Lib
erty held her rendezvous in every town,
but five thousand heeded the cry, and
rallied to the standard.
What then shall we despair shall
we cease all efforts shall we heed
those who discouragingly say “you can
accomplish nothing,” “it will do no
good 5 A moment’s consideration and
every one must be convinced, that hope
lessly to yield the struggle is an unwise
and ruinous course. “It is an eternal
law of God that whosoever abandoneth
himself, will the Lord forsake.” They
are false to nature, blind to duty, treach
erous to the interests of the present;
and unmindful of coming generations,
who advise us to bear unresistingly the
burthen of oppression.
It is no doubtful right for which we
contend. It lies at the foundation ol
1 our republican government. The doc
trine is prominently set forth in our
country’s Constitution that “all just
governments derive their powers from
the consent of the governed.” The
People are the recognized source of
power. This is the distinctive feature
both of our National and State Govern
ments. But the foundation is over
thrown, if the expression of choice or
consent is trammelled, or suppressed,
by prohibitory enactments. There are
exceptions to the general law a? in the
case of women, minors, aliens, crimi
nals, the insane and idiots. These clas
ses do not participate directly by vote
in the affairs of the government. Tc
mention their names is to suggest a rea
son. But why are native born colored
men, innocent ol disaffection toward, or
crime against, the commonwealth de
barred the rights of citizenship?
In casting about to ascertain a rea
son for our disfranchisement we discov
er wherein we may justly fey at the
doors of the people of Connecticut, the
Charge of ingratitude in addition to’that
of injustice. Let us review the history
of the State. Let us consider the posi
tion and numbers ol its colored popula
tion at critical periods, from the time ol
the Dutch and Indian troubles in lfrvi
to the fight at Stonington Borough, in
1814. Have we not always been emi
aently loyal and true citizens, and that
too in the face of the strongest iocen
tivei to disaffection
111 Ukt wgr of the Revolution then
THE NORTH STAR.
were seven thousand of our people in
Connecticut, chiefly held in degrading
servitude. When the war note was
every where heard, when the roar of
the British Lion filled many hearts with
tremnling and dismay, many whites turn
ed over to the enemy, following their
fears, or dazzled by the seductive glit
ter of British gold. But is the page of
history sullied with the names of any
black traitor, tory or coward Yet
these were the times that tried men's
souls. Once only were they subjects
of suspicion, and then a thorough scru
tiny proved the suspicion base and
groundless. More than this, our vir
tues were not s»gs»tive ones only. Col
ored men, free and bound, sprang into
the front ranks of freedom’s hosts, yield
ing with a “noble enthusiasm,” their
hardy frames to the toils, exposures and
dangers of war, giving the first practi
cal and glorious exhibition of the now
popular motto, “our Country right or
wrong!" Could a grateful people for
get such services? Or having them
fresh in their memories, would they in
flict so deep a wrong upon the sons of
these departed patriots, as to deprive
them of all participancy in a govern
ment whose foundation stone was hewn
out by their toils, securely laid amid
their prayers, and consecrated by the
outpouring of their blood? Nay would
they not revert to times anterior to
these, and exclaim in the language of
the noble Ellsworth: “we owe a debt to
the colored population of this country,
which we can never pay—no, never,
never unless we can call back oceans of
tears, and all the groans and agonies of
the middle passage, and the thousands
and millions whom we have sent and
are sending, ignorant, debased and un
done to eternity!”
The question recurs brethren, what
Mhall we do? We are convinced it will
not do to yield to despair. There is no
course of “masterly inactivity,” profit
able or practicable to us in this our ex
tremity. Something must be done more
effective than bewailing our lot in each
other’s ears. The conviction of these
truths led to the issuing of the call, and
finally to the holding of the Convention
from which this address emanates, a
convention characterized in an eminent
degree by a spirit of harmony, unanim
ity, and enthusiasm. Among the meas
ures advocated there, that of training
our youths in the practice of mechanic
arts, met with much favor. This meas
ure strongly commends itself to us as
looking to the abandonment of those
menial, and servile employments, which
were the unavoidable Jot of the past
generations.
The acquisition of property in the
soil, homesteads, farms and the pursuit
Df agriculture, are measures deserving
of serious consideration, as inducing
habits of industry and economy. It is
easily perceived that their adoption to
any considerable extent, must secure
comfort, open the way to competence,
and result in stability and independence
of character.
The deep injuries we have inflicted
on ourselves by partaking of the deadly
intoxicating draught were not there for
gotten. Our clergymen are called up
on to bring the hallowed influences of
religion to bear upon this subject, so
thoroughly connected with all our hopes
and aspirations. Every man should be
careful to maintain a proper degree of
self respect, as the infallible method of
commanding the respect of others.—
But let no man think to exalt himself by
standing aloof from his people; but on
the contrary, everywhere identifying
himselt with them, and laboring earn
estly and patiently for the welfare of
all. In the spirit of resolution, No. 11,
let each recognise, honor, and defend
his proscribed and oppressed brother,
and in all lawful ways seek his advance
ment.
The subject of education received as
it justly deserved, particular attention,
and assumed a prominent place in the
discussion of the convention. True our
educational advantages are not great,
and on that account should they be
more highly prized, and no opportunity
to improve them lost. We find the
doors of the high schools, academies
and seminaries generally closed against
our children. But there is now no stat
utory prohibition. No teacher need
now fear arrest, fine and imprisonment,
for his labor of love in teaching a color
ed child. No colored young lady need
tremble at a town’s threatening of “ten
stripes on the naked back” for presum
ing to enter Connecticut in the pursuit
of knowledge.
Let it be remembered, brethren, that
these and other measures are proposed
in answer to a general question, “What
shall be done?” and not as a means
necessary to entitle us to enfranchise
ment. Our title to that is perfect, al
ready; for did we, as a mass, possess
every qualification requisite to the good
citizen in the highest perfection, noth
ing material would be added to the
strength of our claim to the franchise.
Our only argument for that is, and must
ever be, the broad and conclusive one,
that it is oua right, as native born
Men, Citizens of this great Republic,
and members of the Commonwealth of
Connecticut. The value and wisdom
of the measures recommended to you,
are seen in their tendency to increase
our strength, to multiply the number of
our friends, and as a means of enabling
us to wield more intelligently and effec
tively the
“Weapon* Unit amt down u still
A* snow-flake* tali spon the sod,
But executes a freeman’* will
A* liflit-ÜBg due* the wilt of God.”
And furthermore, we must labor di
rectly, continually, and unitedly, to ac
complish our object. It has been as
serted by a great and philosophic mind,
that “there is nothing that hath any
•park of God in it but the more it is
supwMri tbs pwn it risss.” Ut
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX-TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD 13 THE FATHER OF US ALL. AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
verify in ourselves the troth of the max
im. Let us arise in oor might, and
scatter the living coals of Truth upon
the consciences of our follow citizens
of Connecdfcit; let us repeat the story
of our wrongs, in their ears, until it
shall affect their hearts, and influence
favorably their votes. Let there be no
hesitancy to make sacrifices, to sustain
and vindicate our cause. What there
is of resolution and vigor—what we pos
sess of manliness and energy, must be
brought to bear upon the question of
our rights, with uuwavering hope, and
firm reliance upon the irresistable arm,
that will turn and overturn, until Justice
and Judgment ere prevalent throughout
the earth.
We need not fear the result. Wt
mu«t tucceed. “It is an eternal law
that whosoever assists himself, him will
the Lord assist.” The issue is fairly
between principle and prejudice—be
tween well founded right, and blind
perversity—between reason and pas
sion; can it be doubted which shall
conquer in such a contest? The peo
ple can be reached. Their hearts are
not enclosed within impregnable walls.
“Connecticut,” says one of her many
eminent sons, “though slow to move,
moves sure and strong, when she is
aroused; she is cautious and prudent,
but when she sees the reason for a
change, she will change in earnest.”—
She will perceive that righteousness ex
alts a nation. That it is the true foun
dation of national advancement and
prosperity. Righteousness towards,
God in the acknowledgement of His
divine claims and the practice of piety
and duty and righteousness toward
man by the establishment o (justice and
equity and the recognition of the uni
versal brotherhood.
Then shall her righteousness break
forth as the light, and her glory as the
noonday sun.
S. M. AFRICANUS,
HENRY NOTT,
HENRY A. THOMPSON.
From ihe Boston Republican.
WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
On no subject, probably, has there
been such gross, premeditated, and oft
repeated misrepresentations, as on that
relating to the consequences and effects
of the emancipation of the slaves in the
British West India Islands, which took
place August 1, 1838. These misrep
resentations are published by Southern
slaveholders, and other journals devo
ted to their interests, and under their
patronage and control. Perhaps seme
allowance should be made for the
amount of interest they have at stake;
for the prejudice they feel against eman
cipation, which baß been cherished in
their bosoms till it has become second
nature; and the annoyance which such
an example, close by them, is adapted
to impart. But all this is no sufficient
excuse.
Books have been published by honest
and impartial men, who have carefully
examined into the state and condition of
these Islands, before and since the
emancipation of the slaves, which books
have been filled with well authenticated
facts, proving the perfect safety, as well
as happy effects of this emancipation.
These books contain facts which con
vinced Gov. Everett and other discern
ing men of the safety, expediency, and
beneficial effects of emancipation to the
former masters as well as slaves. Yet
with all these facts staring them in the
face, these Slaveholders in our Southern
States continue to speak of this experi
ment as a failure, in order to deceive
people who have not the means of as
certaining the truth.
The following well timed, and well
applied rebuke of th« constant slander
and abuse above referred to, is taaen
from the Kingston Journal, published
on the Island of Jamaica
“The allusion to the British West In
dies is most unfortunate, inasmuch as
the condition of those colonies falsifies
all the statements and predictions of
these Southern members. Who will
look at this island, for example, and
say “the existing relation between the
free and servile races cannot be sepa
rated/’and the races “cannot live to
gether in peace, or harmony, or to their
mutual advantage?” Where is the
man, however favorably inclined to
ward the much-loved system of the
Southern States of America, or preju
diced against the dark hued inhabitants
of that portion of the Union, or of this
colony, who will be bold enough to as
sert that ‘wretchedness and misery and
desolation’ have been the result of eman
cipation? But the Southern members
appeared to feel that their ground was
not safe under them. Hence they tell
their constituents, that “since the
emancipation,” the British government
“has kept up a sufficient military and
naval force to keep the blacks in awe,
and a large number of magistrates,
constables, and other civil officers to
keep order in the towns and on planta
tions, and enforce respect to their for
mer owners.” It is very evident from
this observation that they knew nothing
ot the true state of affairs in the West
Indies, and, if they do, have purposely
misrepresented them. There has been
a very large diminution of both the mil
itary and naval forces in the West In
dies since the abolition of slavery. Some
years ago the regular troops in this
island alone amounted to from eight to
ten thousand men. Now, we believe,
there are not two thousand in it.
“As to the naval forces, those who
knew Port Royal during Urn palmy days
of Slavery, and look at it at present,
can say whether there has been a falling
off in this department of our defence.—
During slavery, evenr rural pariah had
four or five constables, and the towns
a larger number, the total of which,
we have no doubt, would he found
fully equal la the number of police now
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1849.
employed for the preservation of the
peace. Some three hundred and fifty
of these are divided among twenty-two
perishes, and a population upward of
400,000 souls, “to keep order,** as
these Southern members say, “in the
towns and on the plantations, and en
force respect to former owners." But
there is no police on the plantations,
nor any necessity for them; and what
will appear most astonishing to South
ern alarmists, “the social and political
superiority of education and talent" is
still preserved. The Southern mem
bers of Congress, after crowding a lot
of misstatements into very nearly as
manr lines, thus triad up their allusions
to the West Indies: “But notwith
standing all this, the British West In
dia possessions are ruined, impoverish
ed, miserable, wretched, and destined
probably to be abandoned to the black
race.” This, many of our readers will
think, is going ahead rather too fast—
running to a conclusion much too rap
idly. Our reply is, It is not true; there
never was a period in the history of the
British West Indies, in which life and
property were more secure, and peace
and quiet more universal, or a better
feeling existed between all classes of
the community.
HAPPY SLAVERY!
Slavery is a blessed institution! a happy
institution a natural state of society shouts
the slaveholder. Let us see how he proves
this. The following picture of Southern
life from the Canton (Miss.) Creole, gives an
illustration of the happy and peaceful state of
society under the patriarchal institution:
PATROLS.
Mr. Editor: —Permit me through the
medium of the Creole, to call the atten
tion of our Honorable Police Court to
the subject of patrols in our county.
At this time, when there is such an
alarming agitation on the slave ques
tion—every prudential measure that
will contribute to our internal quiet,
should be adopted. That an efficient
system of patrols will do this, I imagine
few will question.
On the generally conceded fact of
exclusive jurisdiction by the Police
Court over this question—under the
constitutional term of ‘County Police,’
I purpose a remark upon the necessity
of some action on the subject.
The fearful agitation now threatening
the Union, on the slave question, should
be sufficient cause for the utmost vigi
lance on our part. Add to this the
more alarming fact of the growing in
subordination among she slaves of the
South, and it appears to me as criminal
in us to neglect any—even the least—
measure of security.
I am aware that there are some who
oppose any system of patrol, on the
ground that it is the duty of every man
to patrol his own premises; and in a
community of large plantations, this
plan may do; for there the owners are
tinder the two-fold obligation of econo
my and interest to keep strict watch.
But those who own but few slaves are
not under the same necessity, and in-'
deed, cannot afford to ‘mount guard.’
The result is, that after nightfall near
half the negroes in the county are liter
ally ‘at large,’ and no more called for
by their owners until the next day’s
work commences. What better oppor
tunity could be asked for organizing a
deadly plot? This county has proba
bly never been free from the presence
of abolition incendiaries and emissaries,
and but few such are required to cor
rupt the whole slave population. And
probably at no time in our history has
so many suspicious vagrant characters
been observed among us, as within the
last twelve or eighteen months. The
late startling case in South Carolina
affords a fresh demonstraiion of their
efforts.
Looking at all these facts, it seems
to me strange that there is such gene
ral apathy in the public mind on this
subject. Having every civilized nation
of the earth clamoring against our pe
culiar institution, and more than half
of our own citizens denouncing it as a
‘great moral and political evil,* we
should feel that we slumbered on a
volcano when we are careless on this
subject.
The history of odr country will show
that every insurrection among the
slaves, from that of 1795, on the coast
of Louisiana, to that of 1835, in Madi
son county, have occurred at a time
when there was the most profound se
curity, to all appearance. And al
though no record is made of the fact,
I have no doubt but it is equally true,
that immediately prior to each, there
was no patrol organization, or if any,
a very inefficient system. Many citi
zens of this county can remember that
in *34 and *35 there was scarcely such
a thing known as a patrol in the coun-
Q, until the people were aroused to a
sense of their danger by accident on
ly, in time to save themselves from
massacre.
Scarcely a week passes now, but
some later evidence of the insubordina
tion among the slaves occurs in our
States. Where is to be the end of this
without some system to force order a
mong them? 1 see nothing more prob
able than another outbreak accomplish
ing the fdeath of thousands of oar
citizens, and desolating the country.
Bet I have already said more than
there is any necessity for, perhaps, as
my object is only to call the attention
of our worthy police-men to the sub
ject, believing they wfll give it the at
tention due its importance, when con
sulting the Pcslic Safety.
SeLF-DESTBOTIKG CfIIKiCTU or
Slavery .-—Our root* lay along Tory
interesting coootry, portly in the State
of Maryland, and partly in Vinpaia.—
Wo beheld a groat number of slaves
at work m the Urn that I
had seen at their degrading labor.—
I They exhibited no lift, do activity in
their occupation; but teemed to drag
themselves along as if existence were a
weariness; they plied their implements
of industry, careless as to the amount
of work done, or studious to do as little
las possible. My companion, Mr. Por
ter, a staunch anti-slavery man, des
canted on the deleterious effects of
slavery on the soil itself; endeavoring
to prove that Maryland and V irginia
were worn out by this kind of cultiva
tion. Whether this is so or not, I can
not pretend to determine; but the whole
country where these slaves were at
work has an extremely barren appear
ance. Such is the decree of God, that
this enormous evil may wear itself out,
and the planters be obliged to turn to
the cultivation of such productions as
may make it profitable to employ free
labor. God appears to curse with ste
rility the land cultivated by the slaves.
The planters, I was informed, were
getting very poor; and it was appar
ently becoming their interest to turn
their attention to something else in the
place of tobacco and the other produc
tions on which slave labor is chiefly
employed. We passed on, and soon
lost sight of the haggard, dispirited,
broken-hearted,oppressed slave. Those
fields had witnessed the iabor, the
tears, the blood of their race for gene
rations; and for aught which appears,
must continue to witness the same
miseries in their children, unless Hea
ven shall, in mercy, increase the inten
tensity of his malediction, and render
the country completely sterile. But
would this be any relief? No; these
poor wretches would be sold, and sent
farther South; and if even the same
fate should follow them into the Caro
lines and Georgia, still there are Tex
as, Mexico, and California, to be peo
pled and cultivated by this unfortunate
race. The evil seems to be indefinite,
eternal. Provision has been made,
designedly or otherwise, by the con
quests of the States, for the progress
of this scourge, for all time to come.—
Methodism in America.
From the Centrerille, (Ind.) Sentinel.
LETTER FROM J. M. BARRETT.
Spartanburgh Prison, Sept. 12. 1847.
My Dear Father :—I have not writ
ten you for some days. But 1 must not
defer it longer. Nothing of interest has
occurred with me since my last. lam
still in prison and most relentlessly per
secuted by a portion of those around
me. But you need have no apprehen
sion of their injuring me fn the end. 1
am above the injustice and slander of
reckless petty tyrants, who would rob
me of character, even life if they could.
1 have violated no law of this State in
any way. I know it, and, therefore,
foresee that the time must come when
the conduct of those who persecute me
fiercely will meet the indignant censure
of the whole country. The last Spar
tan, you will see, publishes Mr. W. H.
Brisbane, of Cincinnati, as the man who
sent me the documents and letters, about
which lam cast into prison. If this be
true, by Mr. Brisbane, then, I could
readily show that those things were
sent me without my knowledge or con
sent in any way, previously obtained.
He is a man of undoubted repute at
Cincinnati, and his testimony would be
as utterly unimpeachable as that of any
man’s in South Carolina, I care not
who he is. Mr. Harwood is also a man
of undoubted veracity among his ac
quaintances, and his testimony would
go as far in a Court of Justice at home
as any man’s by him I could prove
that I came into the country not to cir
culate documents, or operate upon the
institution of slavery in any way. The
above testimony would inevitably clear
me of the whole matter. Well, what
think you The heartless injustice and
tyranny of the prosecution has deprived
me of this testimony, the only means by i
which I can make my innocence appa
rent. 1 was prepared for almost any
thing else but this. Even the last
treachery of depriving me of bail as it
had been promised was not equal to de
nying me the testimony of the most im
portant witnesses. It is a law of this
State to examine distant witnesses bv
commission, in which both parties join
or the commission is defeated. My en
emies refuse to join a commission to
examine the witnesses before mention
ed, and thus you see they deprive me
of their testimony. Let them exercise
their brief authority” over me, it must
come to an end soon. They can’t prove
aught against me by any honorable
man, and Harwood and Brisbane will
clear me in this matter before the world.
My Dear Father, let me exhort you
to give yourself no trouble, if possible,
on my account, even if my case was ten
times worse. If I had committed any
offence against the laws, that could
stain my name with infamy, it would be
vour duty to exercise philosophy and
that pure religion that is above philoso
phy, which lifts the soul from the poor
transient events of this world, into that
brighter aad better realm, which God
has stamped with eternity.
I almost feel that I am never to enjoy
much happiness in this world, it seems
to me that I am doomed to be a com
panion with misfortune in of
life, be it long or short. But I feel the
evidence within roe that there is a spirit
world-a bright etherial existence above
this dull mortality, where disease and
death cannot come, and the troubles
and trials of this world are felt no more.
Oh God, let us look to this and forget
that we are dull worms of the dust, the
creatures of an boor. Let us look to
that lift eternal that may be enjoyed in
the world to come.
Your affectionate Son,
J. M. BARRETT.
P. S. The draft on the Cincinnati
Bank in which your money it depeeitod
will be faithfully kepi, and the money
will aoon be returned to you.
My beafch is as good as 1 could ex
pect. Court comes on in three weeks,
after which 1 hope to return home im
mediately. J. M. B.
THE FALL OF HOSE.
The London Daily .Yews publisher
n lone letter from Joseph Mazzini ex
postulating with England for allowing
the French to crush the Roman Repub
lic. The following passages will be
read with painful interest by all who
believe and rejoice in human progress.
Rome has fallen! It is a great
crime and a great error. The crime
belongs entirely to France; the error to
to civilized Europe, and, above all, to
your England. I say your England,
for in the questions which are now at
issue in Rome, and which it is in vain
to attempt to stifle by brute force, Eng
land appears to me, and did appear to
us all, to be equally concerned.
Three questions—the question of prin
ciple, of international right, of Euro
pean morality—the political question,
properly so called, the balance of pow
er in Europe, influence to be preser
ved or obtained—and the religious
question—all were, in fact, raised al
ready in Rome before the entrance of
the French. The question of princi
ple is, thank God, sufficiently clear.
A population of more than two mil
lions of men having peacefully,solemnly
and legally chosen, through a consti
tutional assembly regularly elected, a
form of government, is deprived of it
by foreign violence, and forced again
to submit to the power which had been
abolished; and that without the popu
lation having furnished the slightest
pretext for such violence, or made the
slightest attempt against the peace of
neighboring countries. The calum
nies which have been for months sys
tematically circulated against our re
public are of little importance; it was
necessary to defame those whom it had
determined to destroy. But I affirm
that the republic, voted almost uuani
mously by the Assembly, had the gen
eral and spontaneous approbation of
the country; and of this, the explicit
declaration of almost all the munici
palities of the Roman States voluntari
ly renewed at the time of the French
invasion, without any initiative on the
part of the Roman Government, is a
decisive proof. I affirm that with the
exception of Acona, where the triumvi
rate were obliged energetically to re
press certain .criminal -acts of political
vengeance, the republican cause was
never sullied by the slightest excess;
that never was there any censorship
assumed over the press before the
siegj, never did ,the occasion arise for
exercising it during the siege; not a
single condemnation to death or to ex
ile bore witness to a severity which it
would have been our right to have ex
ercised, but which the perfect unanim
ity which reigned among all the ele
ments of the state rendered useless.
I affirm that, except in the case of
three or four priests, who had been
guilty of firing upon our combatants
and who were killed by the people du
ring the last days of the siege, not a
single act of personal violence was
committed by any fraction of the pop
ulation against another, and that if ev
er there was a town presenting the spec
tacle of a band of brothers pursuing
a common end, and bound together by
the same faith, it was Rome under the
republican rule. The city was inhabi
ted by foreigners from all part 9 of the
world, by the consular agents, by many
of your countrymen; let any one of
them arise, and, under the guarantee
ofbisown signature, deny, if he can,
the truth of what I say. Terror now
reigns in Rome; the prisons are now
choked with men who have been arres
ted and detained without trial; fifty
priests are confined in the Castle of
St. Angelo, whose only crime consists
in their having lent their services in
our hospitals; the citizens, the best
known for their moderation, are ex
iled; the army is almost entirely dissol
ved the city disarmed, and the fac
tious’ sent away, even to the last roan;
and yet France dares not consult in a le
gal manner the will of the population,
but re-establishes the Papal authority
by military decree. I do not believe
that since the dismemberment of Po
land there has been committed a more
atrocious injustice, a more gross vio
lation of the eternal right which God
has implanted in the people,—that of
appreciating and defining for them
selves their own life, and governing
themselves in accordttpce with their
own appreciation of it.
Above the questiou of right, above
the question of politicsl interest, both
of which were of a nature to excite ear
ly the attention of England, there is
another question being agitated at
Rome of a very different kind of im
portance, and which ought to have a
roused all those who believe in the vi
tal principle of religious reformation—
it is that of liberty of conscience. The
religious question which broods a: the
root of all political questions showed
itself there, great ai»d visible in all its
European importance. The Pope at
Gaeta was the theory of absolute infal
lible authority exiled frpm Rome for
ever; and exiled from Rome waa to be
exiled from the world. The abolition
of the temporal power evidently drew
with it, in the minds of all ihoee who
understood the secret of the Papal au
thority, the emancipation of men’s
minds from the spiritual authority
i The principle of liberty and of tree con
|ient, elevated by the CoostitotiooaJ
I Assembly into a living active right,
tended rapidly to destroy the absolu
tist dogma which tram Rmm ehas more
than ever to enchain dm universe.
The high aristocracy of the Roman
JOHN DICK,PufL!SH£*
WHOLE NO.^s.
Catholic clergy well know the imposes
bilty of retaining the soul in darknett,
io the midst of light inundating the is*
telligsnce of men; for this reuon they
carried off their Pope to Gseta; for
this reason they now refuse ell compro
mise. They know that any compro
mise would be fatal to them; that they
must re-enter as conquerors, or not at
And in the same way the aristoc
racy of the clergy foit this inseparabil
ity of the two powers, the French Gov
ernment, in present reactionary
march, has felt that the. keystone of
despotism is at Rome—that the ruin of
the spiritual authority of the middle a
ges was the ruin of its own projects—
and that the only method of securing
to it a few more years of existence wim
to rebuild for it a temporal domin
ion.
“England has understood nothing
of this.—She has not understood what
there was of sublime and prophetic in
this cry of emancipation, in this prot
estation in favor of human liberty, is
*uing from the very heart of ancient
Rome, in the face of the Vatican. She
tias not felt that the struggle in Rome
was to cut the Gordian knot of moral
servitude, against which she has long
and vainly opposed her biblical socie
ties, her Christian and evangelical al
liances; and that there was being o
pened, had she but extended a sisterly
hand to the movement, a mighty path
way for the human mind. She has not
understood that one bold word, respect
for the liberty of thought,’ opposed to
the hypocritical language of the French
Ciovernment, would have been suffi
cient to inaugurate the era of a new
religious policy, and to conquer for
herself a decisive ascendency upon the
Continent.”
From th* Medical mod Surgical Journal.
THE SCIENCE OF OPTICS.
There are two self-taught men m
Vlassachusetts, who are learned with
out pretence, and who, were they in
habitants of Europe, instead of this
:ommonwealth, would long since have
)een honored with tho fostering atten
entions of philosophers, for their dis
inguished attainments, as Dollandand
Kraunhofer were, in the same difficult,
jut exceedingly important department
)fscience, viz., optics. One who is
\lvan Clarke of Boston, a miniature
jainter, who has constructed several
elescopes, under circumstances very
infavorable indeed, partly during those
ractions of time when he could not pur
lue his regular vocation, but chiaily
ate at night. These instruments are
scarcely equalled, and not surpassed,
by those of the most celebrated for
eign manufacturers. Mr. Clarke makes
every part with his own hands—grinds
»nd polishes the lenses, and hasaston
shed those who are competent to ap
ireciate the magnitude of his mechani
cal achievements, in the construction
>f a really splendid refractor. This
lowever, is only a small part of the
narvel. Mr. Clarke is profoundly fa
niliar with the laws of light,
lis own beautiful instrument has made
limself as familiar with the firmament,
»nd all the telescopic objects of the
leavens, as with the canvass on which
te daily labors for bread. The other,
equally deserving for his moral quali
ies, mechanical ingenuity, and pro
bund knowledge in the same field of
icience, is J. B. Allen of Springfield,
i modest, retiring, deserving individ
jal, who, as in the other case, without
i patron, without an instructor, and al
most without the approving recogni
ion of those who are reputed to be
wise above the multitude, has few e
]uals in the domain of optics. He, too,
i&s fabricated elegant reflecting telet
ypes—and it would be an honor to
he great town of Springfield to pur
chase one of them for the use of the
public schools, as the period may come
when it will be a boast, that Mr. Allen
resided there. At the late session of
the American Association for the ad
vancement of Science, at Cambridge,
Mr. Allen exhibited a microscope
which he had made. If we are not
misinformed he had never seen ona
himself before. It was admired for its
wonderfully defining powers, and ia en
ough to give him a permanent reputa
tion. Amos Lawrence, Eaq., of Bos
ton, celebrated for acts of generosity
and encouragement, purchased it at
once, and Mr. Allen was elected a
member.
These gentleman are not merely me
chanics—they are philosophers, m the
highest sense. They have taught
themselves what scarcely one of a thou,
•and understands, with .11
rior advantages of tutor*, text-books,
lectures, and systematic experimental
guidance. If onr universities would
lend a helping hand to geniuses like
these, instead of plastering over empty
heads with honorary degrees, to grati
fy some relative of a trustee’s friend,
who has neither claims nor brains, how
much would it redound to their in
fluence. Let these men have in op
portunity of exhibiting the power that
is in them, and they would astonish tho
world with the grandeur of their a
cbievements. Since, however, they are
neither noticed by college professors,
nor introduced into observatories, their
appropriate place, the object of thee*
observations is to elicit an interest m
their behalf with the medics! profession.
Physiology can only progress under tho
microscope, sod there is room enough
to employ all the forces that can be en
listed into the service. Those who are
food of those researches, and are m
want of suitable instruments, are ad
vised to call upon Meaer*. Clarke and
Allen for them, aod we luiva no doubt
they will be furnished with suck as will
enable them, with proper application.
;to carry physiological researches beyond all modern boundaries.
Extracts
From the proceedings of the Young Men and Women’s Convention , as given by the Anti-Slavery Bugle
In pursuance of a cal! issued by direction
of the Executive Committee of the Western
Anti-Slavery Society, a Convention of the
Anti-Slavery Young Men and Women of
Ohio was held in Berlin. Mahoning County,
commencing on Friday, Sept. 5215 t., at 52
o’clock', r. m., in the Great Tent, which was
spread for the occasion on the premises of
Adnah Silver.
The Convention having been called to order
by the Chairman of the Committee of Ar.
rangetn&ilt, Oliver Johnson was appointed
President pro tern., and James Barnaby and
Rachel w. Thomas were elected Secreta*
nes pro tem.
RESOLUTIONS.
Whereas, The perpetuity and extension
of the Slave system in ihe United States have
been and still are the highest considerations
of the Federal Government; and
W here as. To accomplish these purposes,
many millions of dollars have been extorted
from the North and expended upon lauds foi
Slave States, oi in the butchery and banish
ment of thousands of Indians from theii
homes, that their soil, too, might he plunder
ed for the same unhallowed design and
Whereas, This nation, in all its political
parties, and in all Ihe leading denominations
of religion, has sanctioned and sanctified these
tearful attrocities, by accepting the spoils and
extending over them the bloody shield of the
American Constitution; am!
Whereas, The political parties are all
united in theirstern determination to maintain
this blood-stained and blood-cemented Union
with tyrants and man-stealers, howevei
bounded,” or wherever Slavery may be ex
tended and
Whereas, The religious bodies and influ
ences of the nation are equally true in their
loyalty and allegiance to this Confederacy, so
foul with many abominations; therefore,
Resolved. Ist, That we, the Young Men
and Women of Ohio and elsewhere, in Con
vention assembled, deeply and solemnly im
pressed by the fearful degeneracy, the alarm
ing disregard o‘ jusiicc, the entire prostration
of national conscience under which such evils
have been perpetrated, arid earnestly desirous
to save ourselves from the burdens of taxa
tion, ignominy and guilt under which the
Northern States have so long suffered as a
consequence of their unholy alliance with
Slavery and the South, we do now, in the
presence of our God, here build an altar tc
Justice, Liberty and Humanity; and on
this altar we consecrate ourselves to the great
work of elevating Universal Man to the full
enjoyment of all the lights lor which his na
ture and constitution were formed firmly re
solved that in tins work we will never tire un
til victory shall crown our labors or death re
lease us fiom them.
And Resolved, 2d. That since our govern
ment has become thus destructive of the ends
of Liberty, an engine of torture and slavery
to millions, compelling the entire people to he
father slaveholders nr slaves it lias become our
right and duty not to alter but to abolish it,
and to institute a new’ government, laying its
foundations on such principles, and organizing
its powers in such form, as shall seem most
likely to secure a fu 1 equality of the blessings
of Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happi
ness and with full confidence in the integri
ty of our purpose and ihe justice of our
cause, we do hereby declare ourselves
the enemies of the Constitution, Union
ano Government of these United .States,
and the friends ot a New Confederacy of
Northern States, where there shall be No
Union with ivliere there
shall ever be FREE SOIL, FREE LAROR
AND FREH MEN. And from this great
and glorious Convention, we proclaim it as
our unalterable purpose aad determination to
live and to labor for a Dissolution of the
present Union, by all lawful and just.
though bloodless and pacific means, and
for the formation of a New, Northern Re
public, that shall he such not in name only,
hut in full, living reality and truth.
And we do hereby invite and .-treat all the
young people of Ohio, and the friends of
Justice, Humanity, and t ue Liberty in all
the States, to unite ith us in iaboimgfor so
glorious and holy an object.
£nd Resolved, 3d, That this Preamble and
these resolutions be signed by the officers of
this Convention, and forwarded, under the di
rection of a Committee for that purpose, to
such of the principal Editors of public Jour
nals, Members of Congress, and other officers
in the Government, and to such other persons
as shall be deemed proper in even/ part of the
Union.
11. Whereas, it is professedly a funda
mental principle m ibis Republic that the
government shall he of the majority and
Whereas, Each voter unites in himself as
a supreme sovereign, all the Legislative, Ju
dicial and Executive power, holding his elect
ed or appointed agents hound to administer
the government m accordance with his views
and not their ow n and
Whereas, The IT.l T S. Constitution is the
book of instructi ns from the voter, by which
his agents are to be governed in all their offi
cial conduct; and
hehkas, W hatover outrages are perpe
trated under ihe authority and protection of
the government, are perpetrated by the indi
vidual voters therefore
Resolved, That all the Rapes, Robberies
and Murders mtl cted upon the 3,000,000 ot
unprotected slaves, under the authority and
detenee of the government, are inflicied by
each and every individual voter; and he
should be held as much responsible at the bar
of justice and humanity, as if he himself had
■personally commuted these w rongs upon the
most eminent white citizens, male or female,
who enjoy the full protection of the countrv.
111. Resolved, That higs, Democrats,
Free Sutlers, and all voters under the l ,S.
Constitution, must necessarily pledge them
selves to their slaveholdiiig confederates, and
to one another—
U That they will sustain the right to hold
property in man, by allowing slaveholders to
have political power in proportion to the num
ber ot their slaves.
1 fiat they will never secrete nor defend
the runaway slave from ins master.
3. 1 hat they fail defend the oppressor
against ihe oppressed, the spoiler against the
spoiled, the lavisher against the victim.
4. 1 hat they will never even their polili
cal power to abolish Slavery in the States.
5. I hat they wid hold every slave respon
sible to their government, while they allow
them no protection either m ifieir rights or
persons.
6. That they will sanction and defend vio
lations of the rights of Properly, Liberty and
Life by slaveholders, which thev wdi punish
with Ihe dungern or with death when cum
in tied by non-slaveholders.
7. 1 hat they wdi regaid as crimes wotihv
of death in slave*, which in their owucra they
honor and applaud a* the high tt virtues.
8 That while the testimony of the slave
shall never be admitted against his master,
they will give full credence io the testimony
of the master against the slave.
9. That they sanction and will help exe
cute every slave law in every slave State.
10. That there is not and never shall be
one spot of Free Soil'' on which the slave
may stand secare against the claim of his
master.
IV. Tins Convention is full of joy at tiw
tltdinsng state of Amtrsean religion, as seer
in the absence of Revivals, me drooping con
diuun of all the popular Churches, and the ut
ter extinction of many of than the small
number ot candidate* lor the ministry at the
Theolog 'al seminaries, and the frequency
with which minister* escape from sect a nan
pulpit* into tar less mischievous arid Or mors
honest sod laudable occupations. And wt
cannot but hope and pray that, am its terrible
sacrament* on the heart*, ifie hopes aud hap
pines* of millions of sLves, whose enslave
ment tt baa so lung sanctioned by its IcUew
i
ship, its sermons sod prayers, stall end, sod
it sbsll sink to a speedy sad ignominious
glare, that then H stall be Mlowed by the
coming of the kingdom of righteousness and
peace, when man shall do more lid tip the
sword or the shackle against hn fellow rosn,
when a slave or a slaveholder shall be no
more known, bat when, emphatically, Ev
ery man in cvety face shall moet a brother
and a friend.’*
V. Resolved, That while it must be re
corded, to the disgrace of the town of Berlin,
that it ta the only place in the Free States m
which a faithful advocate of the slave’s cause
has, encountered the martyrdom of a coat of
tar aud feathers, so also will it be recorded to
its honor, that it was the place in which was
held in peace and quietness the first great
Convention of the Anti-Slavery Yoong Meo
and Women of Ohio and that tn view of the
great change of public opinion indicated by
these facts, we are encouraged to persevere
in our efforts for the regeneration and disen
thralment of the whole land from (be entries
and pollutions of Slavery.
VI. Resolved That we unitedly express
our gratitude to God, that out brother Mari
us R. Robinson, who so nobly endured the
martyrdom before alluded to, is this day with
us not only in spirit but in person, and ready
to endnre with us the labors and the perils by
which alone the chains of the Slave can he
broken.
VII. Resolved, That, next to the living
speaker, the Press is the most potent instru
mentality for the promotion of a moral and
philanthropic enterprise; that without this
agency it is vain to expect that the public
mind can be enlightened in regaid to the evils
of Slavery, and the people aroused to a sense
of their duties to the bondman and that this
Convention heartily commends The Anti-
Slavery Bugle to the support of the Aboli
tionists of Ohio and the West, and would
urge it upon them as a duty to adopt the most
vigorous measures for extending its circula
tion.
VIII. Wheeras, The American Anti-
Slavery Society ha* authorized its General
Agent for the region west of the Alleghanies
to collect from all its friends One Dollar each,
to be expended in the West; and
Whereas, The friends of the Society in
the East, when applied to, have generally re
sponded to the call; and
Whereas, It is of the utmost importance
to our cause to keep as many agencies in the
field as possible, not only in this State and
Western Pennsylvania, but, if the means car
be supplied, to extend our operations intc
Michigan and Northern Indiana therefore
Resolved, That we will not permit ourselvei
to be exceeded in devotion to the cause by
those living at a distance from the field of op
erations, but will cheerfully respond to the
call npon us; and we urge every Abolition
ist in the West to contribute, if in his power
at least One Dollar for this purpose.
IX. Resolved That while we do not re
gaid the unavoidable use of slave-grown pro
duce as a violation of principle, we neveithe
less believe that our decided preference shoulc
be given to the products of free labor when
ever and wherever practicable; and that tc
refuse to do so, under such circumstances
doee, in our opinion, countenance and sustair
the slave power.
X. Resolved That the unfeigned thanks
of this Convention be given to those friends
in Berlin, whose generous and abundant bos
pitalities have done so much to make this oc
casion one never to be forgotten and while
we go on our way rejoicing at the glorioui
prospect before us, we leave with them oui
heartfelt wishes that their constant and unva
ned kindness and attention to us may in m
wise lose a full reward.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, OCTOBER 19, 1849.
Another Rivet in the Fetter of the
Slave.
It has long been the custom in Russia fur
the owners of seifs to allow the latter to hire
their time, and to pay their masters a given
sum for the same a small drop of mercy in
the bitter cup of bondage. By means of this
the miserable serf is sometimes able, by in
dusttv, skill and perseverance, to surround
himself by circumstances of comparative com
fort, as well as greatly to enhance the wealth
of his master. This privilege has, to a limit
ed extent, been allowed to slaves in many of
the Southern States; and has been a source of
relief from the wretched doom of the plunder
ed slave. We once enjoyed this and felt it
to be a great privilege to select our own em
ployment, and to choose our own master.—
The jiermissiou to do this impressed us with
a sense of our own manhood, capabilities and
rights. The slight taste of freedom which
this favor afforded us, did nothing to weaken
our desire for it —and although we might have
remained a slave until this time had not the
piivilege been withdrawn from us, when ta
ken away we felt far less reconciled to our lot
than when first it was granted. This secret
of human nature, the keen eyed flush mongers
of V irginia have recently discovered; and be
ing resolved to maintain the system of slavery
at all hazards, they are busily engaged in
measures to prevent this means of injury to
their cherished institution. ‘‘The National
Anti-Slavery Standard,” (which seems to be
favored by a large Southern exchange,) con
tains numerous extiacts from Southern news
papers, strongly condemning the conduct of
such masters as allow their slaves the permis
sion to hue their time. They allege the prac
tice to lie dangerous to the stability of the
whole slave system, and one that was justly
alarming all who have an interest in that spe
cies of property. One paper argues that it
makes the slave restless under restraint—and
w hen restricted, the editor says, he beeomes
sullen, and less willing to do his duty—and
this is left to be followed by an attempt to go
North. Another e«il arising from allowing
slaves to hire their time, is set down to be, the
begetting in them the desire to have money—
to have a chance for themselves, as it is usual
ly called. Many other reasons, of like char
acter, are given in favor of withholding thit
privilege from the outraged bondman. The
last hope is thus about to be taken away from
him another rivet is to be driven to strength
en his fetters —and every possible chance ol
rredeeming himself from chains is to be denied
him. Well: be it so! it cannot always last—
a day of reckoning must come and perhaps
tins last iJfort to tighten the cruel bonds ol
slavery, may cause the slave “to move beyond
the measure of hts chain*.” There is on«
consolation that always attends the contem
plation of any new method to prop op slave
ry.—it i* the evidence it affurds of the grow
ing weakness of the system. The ingenuity
of the slave-holder is constsntly taxed to sup
ply strength equal to the decay that is slowly
and continually depriving that system of its
vitality. We observe, in the same paper, that
another enemy of the slave system has bees
detected. I* a class of speakers and w n
ter* wbs talk much of the dignity of labor;
and of eoooaraging white industry. Thu
class contend that white freemen should noi
I only be preferred to staves upon all govern
tom works, sod at all wirwhimrat
nasals, bat that they should also eojoy
plets monopoly. At ibt prevataoee of this
idea tbe slaveholders ate jUMfy alarmed -they
see is a stab at the very bean of abtsry.—
Let bat tbe whits men of the Sooth become
folly possessed of the notice that slaves ought
not to be the competitors of fresmee; and that
to toil by tbe side of slaves is toil degraded,—
and the days of slavery are numbered. The
slaves would soon become comparatively val
ueless; slaveholders would be looked epee aa
enemies of the general good; and their influ
ence over the misem would be gone for ever.
—r.».
Philadelphia.
Tbe papers give an account of another fe
rocious mob in this mobocratie city. Its vio
lence was directed against tbe colored peopls
in tbe neighborhood of Sixth and St. Thomas'
street —a large number of wbooaare represen
ted as having been wounded, and ten or twelve
as having been killed. As usual, tbe excuse
for this bloody outbreak is represented to be
tbe fact that white and colored persons were
living in the same families together, and asso
ciating on equal terms. One of the papers
ststes that this is s mere ptetext. But wheth
er it be true or false it conveys an instructive
lesson on the bitterness and baseness of the
hatred with which colored people are regarded
in Philadelphia. When, in any community,
a violation of a mere custom, or a disregard of
a particular taate, is esteemed an available ex
cuse for setting aside all law, and for resorting
to violence and bloodshed, it shows such cue
i tom and taate to be profoundly wedded to the
affections of the people; and proves them to
be most difficult of eradication.
Slavery and prejudice are, evidently, above
law and order in Philadelphia—and we are
not surprised that “lAe society of ktUera
should adduce this reason for every outbreak ol
which they may be guilty. When the Mayor
of Philadelphia informed “the Hutchinson
family that “he could not protect them from
the violence of a mob if they permitted colored
persons to attend their concerts,” he gave up
the government, the peace, and the property
of that disgraced city into the hands of a band
of atrocious mobocrats. They took authority
from the hands of the Mayor, he virtually
telling them that they were to have full liberty
to endanger the lives, and to destroy the prop
erty of any and all persons who should be
found acting in disregard of public taate and
prejudice, by associating, in any way, with
colored persons—and thus, also, he marked
out the people of color for destruction when
ever the brutal propensities of base white mer
should prompt them to the work of murderoui
outrage.
The authority has gone from the govern
ment of Philadelphia; and the struggle will
be long and fearful, before it will be regained
Since the burning of Pennsylvania Hall, Phil
adelphia has been from time to time, the scent
of a series of most foul and cruel mobe, waged
against the people of color—and it is" now
justly regarded as one of the most disorderly
and insecure cities in the Union. No man ii
safe—his life—his property —and all that hi
holds dear, are in the hands of dmob, whiel
may come upon him at any moment—at mid
night or mid-day, and deprive him of hit all
Shame upon the guilty city Shame upoi
its law-makers, and law administrators!—
Philadelphia will never b«rredeemed from thi
curse of mobs, until it copies the example se
by the government of New York in the lati
Riots in Astor Place. —r. d.
Philadelphia Association.
We are happy to learn that the Ladies ol
the Philadelphia Association are making vig
orous efforts to render their intended Fair, foi
the support of the North Star,” successful.
Their appeal for assistance, with which oui
readers are already familiar,) shows them to
be in earnest, and deserving of the sympathy
and encouragement of all who wish well tc
the Free Colored people of the North.
The proposed Fair is under the auspices oj
1 Colored Ladies, assisted by such white fnende
as are disposed to help them. They deem
the North Star” an useful anti-slavery in
strumentality, and are willing to work for its
support. They are the only colored Ladier
in the United States who have laden them
selves with the work of holding a Fair in aid
of this paper—and consisting as they do, oj
some of the most intelligent and philanthrop
ic women iu our ranks, they are entitled tc
the utmost confidence of all who may feel dia
j posed to make them the medium, through
1 w hich to help forward the cause of our im
provement and elevation. It has been objec
ted that a Fair held by colored Ladies, server
to alienate the colored people of Philadelphii
from the abolitionists, and to set up a sepa
rate interest. We deem this objection ab
surd. There is no necessity for such alienatiot
—and if alienation between tbe colored peo
ple and the abolitionists result from the faci
that colored ladies hold a Fair to support i
paper edited by one in every respect identifiec
with them, it is easy to see where the re
sponsibility will rest.
It is obvious that the white abolitionists ir
Philadelphia, are interested in sustaining
their own papers and lecturers, and that the]
attach an importance to the duty of suppor
ting them above that which they feel in re
gard to tbe“ North Star.” This is natural
—we have not a word of complaint to mak<
on that score—and it is equally natural, tha
our colored friends in Philadelphia shook
feel deeply interested for the support am
continuance of their own paper. They havi
therefore, a special, and moot perfect righ
to make a separate effort to sustain the pa
per in question. If either of tbe other anti
slavery Fairs were disposed to include tlu
North Star" among desirable anti-slavery io
strdmenialitiea, and would render it any as
usance, tbe ease might be different. But a
u not so. Individual abolitionists have ft*
quently helped ua,— somites {one treeptoi]
never. We look therefore, mainly to oui
colored brethren and sisters who foal the im
portance of this paper, for help} and encour
agement.
In genera) efforts to aid the anti-slavery
cause we may always act with our white fol
low abolitioniste; and we hope the day will
never come when this cannot be done with
the utmost pleasure, by the colored people,—
but it may often occur, as in this ulaees
that we may attach mote importance to a
special instrumentality than meets the viewa
sod wishes of our while fellow fohnrms
la such casus we hava no other ahcnmuvr
tat to Ml independently; the late erf
Philadelphia bow purpose to do.— r.
Tta BaUtente
The Anti-Slavery Convention held at Ber
lin, Mahon inf county, Ohio, on the 91»t, 93d
and 83d Sept., appean to have been one of
the moat spirited and iatereeting gatberinga
ever held in the west. It adopted a aeries of
reaohtliopa, erpreapng its views on the anb
jeet of alavery genendfy; and especially, on
the (object of a dissolution of our present un
hallowed union with aiive-boldera —and de
daring in favor of the formation of a northern
republic. We have seldom seen resolutions
more happily, or more powerfully drawn.—
The am and guilt of the North in being band
ed with Southern taskmasters against the
freedom and natural rights of the dive, and
the solemn duty of dissolving this Union are
set forth, with all the clearness and force in
which the English language is capable of
presenting the subject. These young men
and women will, undoubtedly, be sneered at,
and held up to ridicule, by the conupt and fet
tered press of the pro-slavery parties. They
will be represented as hair-brained fanatics,
and wild enthusiasts, who know not “what
manner of spirit they are of,** nor what it is
they aim to accomplish. Their plans will be
laughed at as impracticable—absurd—and ri
diculous. But what of all that? They ate
based upon the eternal rock of principle. This
ill-omened alliance with man-stealers ought to
be broken up—and what ought to be done ean
be done. All we have to do is to fling our
principles among the people—remembering
that the great God’will never allow the truth
to return void. While the North is in this
guilty partnership, it is responsible for slavery,
and for the ten thousand horrors that daily
flow therefrom. The curse of Heaven is up
on it; and its blessing is upon all, who, by
Christian means, seek its overthrow. We
want just such a Convention in the State of
New York as that recently held in Berlin.—
“Now is the time for it. If we had a voice
at all potential, we would lead the way in
summoning the real friends of liberty in Con
vention, to respond to the sentiments so brave
ly put forth by the earnest young men and
women of Ohio.—f. d.
Controversies among Colored Men.
We have received several letters recently,
deprecating our course towards Henry High
land Garnett, and expressing profound regret
that differences and controversies should occur
among men of the same complexion. We
admire the amicability more than we do the
sagacity of our correspondents. Until they
can prove that sameness of complexion produ
ces harmony of opinion, they will fail to show
that colored men have not as good right to
differ from each other a» have white men.—
These correspondents and advisers must find
a more permanent and rational basis for their
regrets than that of “color.” The mind does
not take its complexion from the skin to be
a colored man is not necessarily to be an abo
litionist.
1 If we have, in any instance, accused a man
unjustly administered mn untimely rebuke or
made any attack unwarrantably,—let it bo
ahown, and we shall not need to be asked 10
retract, or to nuke a needful apology. In the
1 case of Mr. Garnett we merely spoke what we
deemed, at the time, to be true—and what we
1 since have had no evidence to disprove. We
know nothing of that charity which is so for
-1 giving that it can embrace an enemy that glo
ries in his transgression. We neither forgive
nor forget a man who insidiously seeks to de
stroy our character, and, thereby, to stab the
cause with which we are identified but we
will hold him responsible for his conduct be
fore God and man, until he shall repent. A
peace founded on any other basis would be
delusive and worthless.—f. d.
Pumpkins.
Yes! Pumpkins! we raised a nice lot
them this season in our own gaiden. Some
of them were very large—yellow as the gold
of California—and aa deliciously sweet as ever
pleated the taste of the most fastidious epi
cure, or appeased the appetite of the most
hungry laborer. It does us good to look upon
those pumpkins—and then to partake of them
in company with our dear little ones. But it is
not so much the good quality of the pumpkins
to which we would call attention, as to the
good moral we have extracted from them.—
The ground was prepared—seed sown—and
the plant cultivated by our own colored hands;
and although the soil is American it took no
offence on account of our color—but yielded a
generous return for our industry. From this
we infer that the earth has no prejudice against
•olor, and that nature is no respecter of per
sons. It pours its treasures as liberally into
the lap of colored industry, as into that of the
white husbandman. The earth is a preacher
of righteousness; it inculcates justice—love—
and mercy; repudiates the factitious distinc
tions of pride and prejudice—and owns all the
sons and daughters of men (without regard to
color) as its own dear children. Oh ye ne
gro hating Americans! our mouth is open un
to you! Come, and learn wisdom and good
ness from our mother earth, and treat the
colored man no longer aa an outcast and a
despicable being but as the child of a com
mon Father, who causes His suu to shine
1 alike upon the black and the while—and the
elements of nature to respond to the wants of
all His creatures. —r. d.
1 Lockport-
Oca meeting at Loekport last week was an
occasion of considerable interest. The com
modious Congregational Church in which it
was held, was crowded by an audience who
listened as though they were interested in the
subject, and we have good reason to believe
that our labors of last week were not lost up
on that place. It is impossible to impart
toneh interest to an account of a meeting held
by ourselves, so we can only favor our indul
gent leaders with a simple, matter erf faet
statement, respecting the amount of work
done—the time and place, Ac.—a. o.
Mr. Oesiua K. Doggo
We attended tta entertainments, given by
this gentleman, at Minerva HaU, on Wedoea
4ay and Thursday evenings. Black, and pro
though wo be, wc levs good ramie,
and have oe objeetaan to lively wit and hu
mour; and, thaiite. *e went to hear thw
inimitable eemie singer. Dodge gives some
thing more thus ooooerts. They am enter
mi—mis, m ——atm m they ait am teg'
W« have teen mnoy nch, ibss«H.bo«norous,
and laughable fines, bat that of Dodge ex
ceeds them afi. His dmtdptkm if Niagara
Falk, displaying the feelings with which dif
ferent persons view that sublime cataract is
aasnrpaased by any thing of the kind we ever
witnessed—and f u Hy worth the eotire ad
mtssuNi fee. His feet are on Magnetism was
first rate. Such gesticulations ss he employs,
when dispensing knowledge on this sahject,
were never before seen, sod elicited shoots of
laughter and applause from the delighted au
dience.—r. D.
F* ed Micx Dorci.A—. —We find in the
columns of the North Stax, a letter addressed
by this distinguished negro to Captain Thom
as Auld, his former master, in which it is
gratefully acknowledged that Capt. A. has
emancipated all his slaves except the grand
mother of Mr. Douglass, who is too old to
sustain herself in freedom. It appear* that
Capt. Auld takes care of the old woman, hav
ing removed her from the desolate hut where
she formerly lived, into his own kitchen,
where he is providing for her in a manner be
coming a man and a Christian. Thus saith
the negro Douglere—he who- declared in Eng
land that every slaveholder deserved the gal
lows. We are glad to record the fact that his
temper is softening towards his white breth
ree. The country, no doubt, will be saved
again.
The above is from the Pittsburgh Saturday
Visitor—a professed anti-slavery paper. We
should as soon look for a compliment from
“the New York Herald” as we should expect
to find, in the Visitor, an extract so contempt
uous as this seems to be—“ Thus saith the ne
gro Douglass.'" This mode of allusion is al
together in harmony with the habits, educa
tion and mauners of our “negro” despising
community; and we wonder that such an ex
pression should find utterance in a paper edit
ed by Mrs. Jane Swisshelm. It is not true
that the negro Douglass ever declared in
England, ot elsewhere, that “every slave
holder deserved the gallows.” We are not
in the habit of dealing with enemies in any
such way. But we have said, “1/ any man
undei\heaven should be treated as a criminal the
slaveholder is that man.” It is not true that
“Aw temper is softening towards his white
brethren —that temper is as bad as ever,
so far as “temper” has any thing to do with
his advocacy of the cause of the slave. We
as cordially detest the slaveholder now, as
when our own flesh was smarting under his
bloody lash. The man who is guilty of de
grading his brother man to the condition of a
brute, by robbing him of all his rights, and
placing him on his ledger, with horses, sheep,
and swine, is a villain towards whom we hope
our temper will never soften until he shall
have abandoned his infernal pursuits. The
last sentence in this extract is a derisive sneer
to which no answer need be given. We hope
the country will be saved but it is certain
that its salvation will never be effected by
means of a paper that infuses into the public
mind a spirit so contemptuous and sneering as
that indicated in the above extract.— f. d.
Dreadful Riot in Philadelphia.
It is with sincere regret that we record the
occurrence of one of the most dreadful riots
that has taken place for many years in our
city. It appears that a gang of men and boys
amounting, it is said, to several hundreds, and
mostly armed, hovered about St. Mary’s street,
which is chiefly inhabited by colored people.
At the same time, there were several knots of
colored men hanging about, arid two or three
collisions occurred. This was the state of
things shortly afier 9 o’clock.
Before 10 an attack was made upon a tav
ern at the corner of Sixth and St. Mary street,
called the California House. This place was
kept by a colored man, who was reported to
be martied, or at any rate, living with a white
woman. The house was soon in flames, the
inmates driven out and fired upon, with many
other colored persons, who were seen flying
from their houses in extreme terror, chased by
gangs, who pelted them with brickbats, and
fired after them with guns and pistols.
The fire made rapid progress, but several
engine and hose companies were soon upon
the ground. The firemen who went to the
conflagration for the purpose *f saving prop
erty, were fired upon, not in solitary cases,
but actually in a running fire, and by volleys
of several guns and pUtols at once, the rioters
being out in a very strong force. They were
also assailed with showers of brickbats, and
their hose cut in every direction. The first
companies that arrived were compelled to
ieave the neighborhood. Still the firing con
tinued.
It is impossible to tell the number of killed
and wounded; but we saw either five or six
carried to druggists’ shops or to the hospital,
on chairs 01 settees. We heard that two were
shot while standing on an engine, and one
was reported to have been killed. The most
moderate statements that were made at 12
o’clock, admitted that at least twenty were
wounded, and four killed.
Barney Himmelwnght, a member of the
the Good-Will Hose, is reported to have been
shot through the heart.
Two other firemen are dangerously wound
ed—one in the head and one in the side. A
third was wounded in the leg.
The military were called out at midnight,
and several companies made their appearance
on the ground at one o’clock this morning
As late as 2 o’clock this morning there was
still an immense crowd of people. The mili
tary remained on the ground.— Philadelphia
Inquirer, of Wednesday.
Philadelphia, Oct. 10th—1 P. M.
The riots of last evening were renewed
down town this morning, and a number of
other buildings fired by the mob. Several
persons were hurt by fire arms and missiles.
At half-past 10, six or eight military compa
nies, headed by the sheriff and mayor, march
ed to the scene of acnoo, and took possession
of the ground, planting artillery, and forcing
the crowd eut from the infected district. The
fire oompanies are now on hand, putting out
the fire. There are no serious apprehensions
of a renewal of the riots.
A.vkexatioh.—There is 00 longer a doubt
that a wide-spread organization exists at the
present moment is Lower Canada m favor of
Annexation. All parties, ail creeds, and all
nations belong to it. Tbe French Canadian
is eathusiastic, tbe Irishman over-joved, and
tbe Englishman hugely pleased, while the
Scotchman k alt three. After the tbe arti
cles in the London Times and the Economist,
expressive of the willingness of Great Bnt
isa to let as chalk oat for ourselves a new
state of political existence, they do not aouo
ipate any opposition on her pan, but believe
that aa soon as a majority of the people shall
petition for independence, it wB! at ooce be
accorded. The Montreal Courier of this
morning hold* oat threats of a resort to vio
lence. We hope that nothing of the kind
will take place, k k too boyish.— Cobovrg
Star.
LisctATXD.—Some time since, the Rev.
Mr. Fairbanks was commuted to the peniten
tiary of Kentucky for having aided the escape
of a slave. Ho has maoa'hoaa pardoned and
liberated hot a correspondent of the Booteo
Traveller ssya it was not done aotfl about
MOO were paid to the owner of the slave.

Rtwaxd.—Henry B. Stake* baa boon
nominated as Democratic randidite for ffens
lor for Yates, Senoea, and Tompkins ooun
ika, New-York, a tt«af Dforecmie dkukt.
lUaohrtd to breathe foe si Imm a day 01
a parer atmosphere than that usually
ooctiiaed withie tbe foot valla of a printing
oAea, 1 found myself one evening at the
Loading, about three miles from Rochester,
ready to get on boa id the Niagara steamer,
for Lewiston It had rained nearly all day
bat the clouds had now assumed a broken and
dispersing appearance—promising, if not fine,
ar least passable weather. Tbe bell rung,
and ia a few minutea we were ail a-board,*’
aad the floating house waa ploughing us way,
with many a gasp and groan, through the qui
et waters of the Genesee. Before we got up
on Lake Ontario, darkness bad gathered thick
around us, and nought conld be distinguished
on either hand but an expanse in which a
mid imagination might snppoae were the wa
ters of the lake. Aa there waa nothing to be
seen on deck, I betook myself to the cabin,
where I found employment for some time in
criticising the countenances of my fellow-pas
sengers, and conjecturing who and what they
were. There was evidently no one there
above the most common-place. It might well
have been doubted respecting nearly tbe en
tire company, whether they ever had a
thought above the everlasting dollars and
cents. There was one burly-fboking little man,
dressed in officer’s uniform, with a large
paunch and little eyes, and brandy complex
ion, who perhaps waa somebody, as all pres
ent seemed to defer most reverentially to
what he said but not feeling any interest in
men of the killing profession, I did not take
tbe pains to enquire his name. As the night
advanced, the wind became rather boisterous
for those not accustomed to the rocking of a
steamboat, and most of the passengers were
speedily scattered to their respective berths.
A slight choking ssnsation in the gullet re
minded me of the possibility of sea —or, rath
er, foLc-sickness, especially when I heard the
unearthly sounds proceeding from the throats
of some of my travelling companions. Not
being particularly anxious to be over taken in
a like predicament, I concluded that it would
be safer, and perhaps more agreeable, ail
things considered, to follow the example ol
those who were resting from their labors.”
After many vain attempts to sleep, and turn
ing from*side to side, unable to determine
whether the clatter of the engine, the rock
ing of the boat, or the bright glaring light ir
the cabin was the greatest annoyance, I gave
it up, and resolved, since there was no pros
pect of sleep, to oooupy the few hours of the
night in reading. I had several books ant
papers in my pocket, and was soon.busily en
gaged in making myself master of their con
tents. Thb kept me employed, with occa
sional dozes of a few seconds apiece, till wel
on in the morning. We reached Levvistoi
about four o’clock, and all were soon bus]
getting out their baggage. The little burl]
Captain, especially, seemed to have a boat
load himself. My intention was, having beet
informed that the railway train started foi
Lockport, very soon after the arrival of th<
steamboat, to make the best of my way thith
er. But I was destined to make proof of the
poet’s saying, that
The best laid sChemes'o' mice and men
Gang aft agee.”„
There was no train till two o’clock. The
idea of spending ten mortal hours in such a
place as Lewiston, where there was nothing
be seen, nor anybody to speak to, was worse
than purgatory so I looked about for some
other mode of conveyance. By five o’clock,
1 found myself seated in an open vehicle, on
my way to Lockport by the road. It was a
dull, dreary morning. The clouds hung
heavy and threatening; and ere long made
good their promise by a furious down-pouring,
which it was thought would soon be over. In
this we were disappointed.
Some three or four miles from Lewiston,
there is a considerable settlement or village
inhabited by Indians, of (as I was informed)
the Tuscarora branch. These children of the
forest live, for the most part, in very misera
ble shanties very few, if any, of their habi
tations being more than twelve or fifteen feet
square, and one story high. They seem to
have little ambition to make themselves
comfortable, or to provide more than the mere
necessaries of life. There is a church, but
I could not learn whether or not there ia any
school-house in the village. My informant
said he thought there was a school-house, but
did not recollect where, exactly. He thought
it was kept by an Indian. It being so early
in the morning when we passed through their
village, no one was visible. The farms are
not in good order. Very little of the large
district claimed as the Indian reservation, is at
all under cultivation. The number of Indi
ans in this district is rapidly diminishing, eith
er from emigration or some other cause. In
the course of a very few years, in all proba
bility, there will not be one left to tell the sad
story of their extermination.
Nothing more dreary can be conceived of,
than our ride through wbat seemed a very
desolate looking eonntry on that rainy morn
ing. We met in the whole distance of twen
ty-two miles, only one little boy on horse
back. After four hours of exposure to wind
and ram, we arrived m Lockport, almost
numbed to death, glad to teach a place ol
shelter.
Having recruited somewhat, I went in
search of friends whom I expected to meet in
this village, and was soon successful in my
search. I learned from one ol the daily p*.
per* that an Anti-Slavery Fair had been held
the preceding day, in the Lutheran Church.
Tbe intention of some of us was, if tbe
i weather had been passable, to spend a day at
Niagara Falls. The distance from Lockport
is only shout fifteen miles, and might very
easily have been accomplished. But the ram
spoiled that, even if it had not been before ar
ranged, seeing tbe success of tbe Fair oq the
day pieceding, to cooitnue it a second day.
This day it was not nearly so successful;
most of the citizens of Lockport acting upon
the wiser plan of staying at home on such a
doubtful sight as that was.
Next day, (Sunday,) lain again worse
than eves, 1 Self quite disconcerted and dis
appointed. However I got up, and after go
ing through the usual process of ablution,
damning, dte., made my way to the hurra am
e 4 the betel ha which I lodged, where 1 found
a number of storm-staid travellers, around a
large biasing wood Are, bewailing their hard
lot, and cursing the weather moat fcnaniiy.
Soon i eeevcrasfhm was started a knot
of yooflf «mh, the subject of mfcfafc 1 ftver-
I MMd, wm foe ”Mggei Fail” that hud yum
held m the village. One of them had
bato there, tod vm eloquently describing
bow Dougiam «u guilty of th« unpardonable
«o of speaking to white women bow the
Digger wenches,” m be very politely named
respectable colored women, actually bad tbe
aaaaranee to walk and talk amongst the mat,
as if tbey.were human beings tad a great
deal more of a like silly sort, in which 1 had
the satisfaction of hearing myself mixed up
tn no very complimentary terms. None of
them seemed to recognize me again, sad I had
the pleasure of laughing heartily at the poor
fellows who pet the rose Ires in soch a rage to
no perpoae. la tbe midst of their conversa
tion, the be!* rung for breakfast, and away tbo
whole kit and boodle of the company dartod,
as if fired from a musket, pell-mell for the
dining room, leaving me to conclude, that
with all their righteous indignation, there was
something in the world which they consider-'
ed of more importance than to curso
“d d abolitionists” and infernal nig*
gera.” I followed at mv leisure, and found
our quondam patriots gorging themselves
very swinishly. They had forgotten all
about tbe nigger Fair,” in the luzuty of
bolting steaks, biscuits and hot coffee.
What to do with myself on this day, was
now the question. It was impossible to go
out any distance. The rain fell like a second
deluge. After serious eogitstion, I concluded
to venture out in search of a friend's house,
which 1 was fortunate enough to find without
much difficulty. Mr. S—— and family re
ceived me most cordially, and 1 contrived to
spend a very agreeable day, notwithstanding
my disappointment. Next morning the sun
shone forth gloriously and some who had
time at their disposal weot off to the Falls
and 1 went, to dispose of an hour or two, in
looking at, or rather for, tbe lions of Lock
port.
This is a village of some ten or twelve
thousand inhabitants. It has been and is now
a bury place while canal navigation is open.
The idea of getting a city charter, and a cor
poration of mayor, aldermen, and taxes, like
the rest of the cities, is much talked of, and
will probably be carried out. The locks at
this place are interesting. This is a very sol
id piece of stone-wotk. The locks are fivn
in number, within the distance of a few rods
—as near, indeed, as they could conveniently
be erected, to leave room for the long con
veyance boats to pass through. The fall at
each is about fifteen feet, and altogether, by
this means a fall of seventy feet is overcome,
i There are several saw-mills and manufacto
ries in Lockport, and it is evidently in a thri
ving condition, bidding fair in time hereafter
to become a city of some importance.
The stage road from Lockport to Batavia
is through a fine, level and comparatively well
cultivated district. Farm houses are in close
proximity to each other the entire distance—
thirty-two miles. There are some three or
foui small villages on the road, all of them
provided with at least a tavern, and probably
a lawyer and doctor. This is an inseparable
trio. Neither one can very well thrive with
out the other two. The popularity of all
three, however, is now considerably on the
decline. Cold water ami temperance are do
ing much to destroy their reputation. The
forests on the roadside were in all their
glory. The mixture of bright orange, red,
brown, and the varied autumnal tints, was
very beautiful. Add to this a bright sunahine,
and a calm October afternoon, and it may be
supposed that I had no reason to weary of
my journey. But there are two sides to this
picture. The road was detestable. The
coach was a crazy, ill-conditioned vehicle.—
The continual jolting from side to side was
more than it had agreed for; and the conse
quence was that it broke down with a lurch,
giving all of us a considerable shake and
fright, but doing no farther damage, except to
hold out the comfortable prospect that we
must trudge off afoot, cr tarry there all night.
However, as is often the case in such circum
stances, things were not so bad as we leared.
Only a screw or two had given way and af
ter a little search, the pieces were picked up
again; and we were soon jogging on our
way, no worse than before. Long ere our
seven hours of this sort of thing were over, I
would willingly, and in so far as the state of
my temper was concerned, might with advan
tage have dispensed with any longer churning;
and when, at ten o’clock, we arrived in Bata
via, it was without any feeling of regret, that
I bade good-bye, I trust forever, to that lum
bering vehicle and savage road. Here I took
the tram for Rochester and found myself
once more at home a little after midnight,
with the addition of a suffocating cold, and
the by no means agreeable apprehension of a
day or two of stcknes*. For the information
of those who are interested, I may add that
with the use of care and infinitesmal remedies,
I soon recovered of my cold, and am now
ready, when time and opportunity tie favora
ble, for another Excursion."—j. u.
Fair at West BloomJUM.
The Ladies and friends of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Society will hold a
Fair at West Bloomfield, on Friday, Oct.
26, at which a beautiful assortment of olegeat
and useful articles will be presented.
Contributions are particularly desired for the
Refreshment Table. Pics, Preserves, Cake,
Font, Cream, Tea, Sugar, Ac., will be
very acceptable.
Fredeuck Douglass will deliver aa Anti-
Slavery Address at Weat Bloomfield, on the
evening preceding the Fair. WiU com
mence at 7 o’clock.
K7* Friends are requested to make the ne
cessary preparations.
Tut Bassett Cast—The Grand Jury at
hpM J*f‘ bor C. on tbo 3d inot. found a
J o M. Bassett, a citizen
of Utuo, for circulating incendiary documents,
("Brutus Pamphlet"’) He was ad mitred
to bad in the asm of Siooo to stand his trial
at tbe next term.
OajtiiL'WzaeTta amd Colojozation —lo
1 letter from Mr. Lewis Tsppmn, published m
the Congregational** of July 6th, the writer
thus spunks:
Subsequently (re the Cotaouanoo nam
ing held in Bustos, in Rev. Dr. Charming’s
Lecture Room in 1828) a largo meotieg
held at the Marlboro’ Hotel, Mr. Webster
praetdod, and I officiated as secretary. Jodge
Story introduced a set of resolutions. A
committee was ohoooo to report at an ad
journed meeting of Constitution of the Mass-
Colonization Society. They met and were much divided in opinion. Mr Webster rose sad and said it is a scheme of the slaveholders to get rid of the free negroes. I will have nothing to within it. And he left the room.
Foreign News of the Week
The Caledonia reached Boston last Friday,
jnd brings dates from London and Liverpool
0 p to Sept. 29th.
England.—A blank week in Kngland. John
Ball it resting in peace and comparative plen
ty. He ia looking forward to a winter auch
a* w aaually attendant upon a good harvest—
ot cheap food and improving itnde. Kossuth
expected by the lost Peninsular packet,
but in consequence of oliataclea thrown in hia
way, had not arrived. On the day of hia ex
pected arrival, the Times in that mean Tory
spirit of opposition to progress and liberty by
w hich u has been characterized on Hungaran
affairs, published a communication calculated
to damp the welcome and damage the char
acter of the illustrious patriot. The article,
it seems, is a translation from one published
in the Augsburg Gazette, some months ago,
with the intention 01 checking the sympathy
then manifested for the Hungarians. This
attack was at that time clearly refuted by the
friends of Kossuth. The Times, however,
makes no mention of that refutation. The
affair is one of unparalleled meanness, unwor
thy even of the well earned reputation of tha
]/>ndon leviathan for dishonesty and one-ei
oedneas. This attack will probably do M.
Kossuth .ittle injury in Kngland. Such an
example of inhospitable and uncharitable wel
come wi/f certainly be little followed or sym
pathised with.
The mortality from cholera has lurther de
clined For three weeks ending Sept. 92nd,
the Bills of mortality in the London Districts
give the following statement; First week,
deaths from choleia 2,026; second week,
1,682; third week, 830. At the beginning
of the month, the deaths ftom cholera were
about 40(1 daily in London, on the 27th ult.
there were only 79 deaths for all I/ondon
for all Kngland, 331; Scotland 57.
The Free Trade Club was unanimously dis
solved on the 20th Sept, and it is intended to
constitute a new club on the very same prem
ises, (St. James's-square.)London, to be bas
ed upon the principles of parliamentary and
financial reform. It will be railed the “Na
tional Reform Club.”
In reference to proposals for a loan to Aus
tria. the following letter ftom Mr. Cobden
has appeared in the London papers.
Oaki.ands, near Sedlescombe, Sussex
Sept. 25, 1819.
My dear Sir, 1 have this moment read in
a London paper the prospectus for a new loan
issued by the Austrian Government. Now,
this is the time for the friends of peace and
disarmament to raise their voices in condem
nation and exposure to the system by which
Austria and the other powers maintain their
enormous armies, and carry war and destruc
tion, not only into their own provinces, but
into the territories of their neighbors. A
public meeting should be immediately cal
led in London to denounce this attempt to
evy upon the earnings of peaceful industry
he means of paying llaynau and his Croats
or their butcheries in Brescia, and their a
iroc.ties in Hungary. There is not a friend
or admirer of the oppressed and slandered
Magyars or Italians who will not press for
ward jo swell the chorus of execration at this
audacious proposal to borrow from the Euro
peau public the money with which to pay the
price of successful violence and injustice. It
is a matter upon which every man is called
upon to express his opinion for all of us are,
upon teims of the prospectus, invited to sub
scribe for the loan. Is there a Jew in Lon t
don who will not be eager to attend such a
meeting to repudiate all connection with the
projected loan, and to denounce the authors of
those atrocitiies against his co-religionists at
Buda-Pesth—atrocities in which Haynau
has surpassed everything that has occured
since the persecutions of the middle ages 1
I will be in town on Thuisday next to meet a
Committee of the Friends of Peace, and if it
be decided to hold a meeting, 1 shall be there
to take a part in it. And believe me faith
fully yours, RICH. COBDEN.
To E. Fry, Esq.
The murderer Manning, incarcerated in
Horsemonger Lane gaol, has been engaged
writing poetry. One of the pieces, The
Prison Bell,” (says the Morning Chronicle)
is worthy of a belter mind. A re-examina
tion lately took place, the cards of entree is
sued specially for the occasion, were in great
demand. It was remarked that the princi
pal actors in one of the theatres were present,
and were attentive students. The prisoners
were again remanded for further examina
tion
There is a prospect of some large measure
of Financial reform being carried in next ses
sion of Parliament. The Morning Adcerti
ter says
We learn from a source on which we
can rely, (hat Lord John Russel has folly re
solved on introducing, in the ensuing session
of Parliament, a variety ofunpoitant financial
reforms. Theaggiegate saving to the coun
try will, we are told, be great.”
C. L. Bonaparte, or as he is otherwise'
known, the Prince of Canine, w as recently in
Birmingham, when George Dawson and sev
eral other gentlemen waited upon, and re
quested him to accept of a soiree. He re
spectfully declined, and wrote a reply in
which we find the following statement, in!
which, though there may be some overstate
ment on the one hand, every hater of Amer
ican slavery, and more especially every col
ored man in these I. 1 idled States, will lie
ready to acknowledge that there is much
truth
I should have been happy in thanking the
inhabitants of Birmingham—to thank, at the
same lime, the noble nation from which I
have received sc kind hospitality, and to tes
tify my admiration to that constitution which,
notwithstanding the faults that in theory you
may find an objection to, works so admirably
in practice, and gives this great people so
much greatness, and happiness, and liberty,
to an extent that is not possessed in any other
country, not only of Europe, but of all the
world; whilst better framed constitutions,
without the vigilance of an enlightened peo
ple, can make pseudo monarchies, or, what
is worse, mock republics.”
In Ireland, <quiet is generally preserved.
A Cork paper, o| a late date, gives an ac
count of the assembling of some five hundred
persons, variously aimed, at a place called
Mulloch Mast, not f w f rom Tipperary.
What their intentions were, or w helber they
had any'definite object, does not appear but
from inquiries made by ihe police, it seems
that a secret organization is extensively in
progress in the South of Ireland.
The Ltmenck Eia/mner, has the the fol
lowing about the expatnated John Mitchell
The friends and family of John Mitchell
have, we aie informed, received notification
from the English Government, to the effect
that they (the Government,) having taken
into consideration the condition of John
.Mitchel's health, have granted him free leave
anu liberty to go wheresoever he pleases,
subject (o oo restraint,. with the exception
that be eh*li OQt rstufo to or settle in any
pon*on or eofooy in .M* Kingdom,
H* proposes, we are told, to proceed to Ger-
W, for the purpose of try*, the effect of
we apes in the restorstioo of life health
Hia wife and family suit remain ra thin coan-
Vh Tl l e I f bil t rct1 who n 1 care
of Ree. John Kenyon. P. P*. Tempkderrr
will leave to join their fitther aa toon a* be
•hall be ecu led ia any eligible locality.”
It ia ie contemplation to erect aroyal marine
residence on the Irish coast, aboat seven miles
from Dublin, and within a mile and a half of
Kingston harbor.
France —The French President haa been
employing htmaelf in supreyiog certain imped
iments to the navigation of the Lower Seine
which employment gate occasion for some
speeches, receptions, processions, Ac.
Mr. Rives, who succeeds Mr. Rush as
Minister of the United States to the French
Republic, ban arrived in Paris.
The Roman question ia Mill undecided.
General Rostolan has in vain proaeud upon the
cardinals the publication of tbe President’s
lettsr, and thus adopt it as an official docu
ment, of which they, and not the French
Minister, would bear the responsibility. This
they will not do. The General in hia perplea
ity says that he would far prefer tbe diiectioo
of a siege, or the assault of a beleagured city,
to the diplomatic skirmishes which he is con
stantly obliged to keep op with priests, and
he has expressed his determination to leave,
and the ‘2oth was to see him depart from
Rome. Subsequent iuatructtoA will proba
bly, however, alter bis determination.
The 83d was the anniversary of the first
Republic it passed off as quietly as could
have been expected. The only circumstance
marking the proceedings was a dinner, at
which the political prisoners of the Concier
gerie were present.
A considerable number of trees of liberty
in Paris, which not having sent forth leaves,
bad become bare poles, have just been uproot
ed by order of the authorities. To prevent
the possibility of any popular commotion, this
measure was carried into effect during the
night.
The cholera continues to ravage the de
partments. At Marseilles, there were fifty
five deaths on the 18th, up to three o’clock in
the afternoon.
The Labor question (says Jerrold’s News)
ie to be brought prominently before the pub
lic in 1* ranee by a kind of Radical Conserva
tive paper, to appear on Oct. 1. It will be
interesting to see whether the French notables
(many members of the Chambers are to sup
port the paper in question) have made any
progress towards practical views on this all
absorbing subject. Loose phrases and senti
mental generalities carry no relief with them
A searching and fearless inquiry will alone
expose the folly of the French commercial
system, as lying at the bottom of the poverty
and privations under which the bulk of the
people labors.
Rome.—The correspondent of the Daily
-\eu>s writes that a granS escape of condemn
ed, or rather accused priests took place from
the prisons of the Inquisition, where they
were confined for trivial offences. They suc
ceeded in effecting a subterranean excavation
from their dungeon to upper day, or rather
night, for they made off about one’clock after
midnight, without being molested by the
French sentries in the neighborhood; for, as
it had been denied that there were any pris
>nerB in the vaults, the soldiers did not con.
iider themselves obliged to watch ve.ry strict
y. Some women of the Trastevars quarter
ire said to have assisted considerably in the
liberation of the prisoners, of whom from
nine to thiiteen are variously stated to have
escaped. Some of the unfortunate men were
prevented from emerging with their compan
ions, by the not unpriestly corpulence of one
of their number, who got jammed in the es
cape-hole, and fixed himself so firmly in the
w all by his own efforts, that, fiading return
as tedious as to go o’er,’ he was obliged to
remain until the affair got wind, and he was
captured midway. Two French artillery
men, walking from the neighboring guard
house, saw the first prisoners escape, and pre
tended not to observe them, saying one to an
other, Laissons done .echapper ces pauvres
diables—faut leur tourner le dos.’
Austria and Hungary.—The Morning
Chronicle has a letter dated Vienna, Sept. 22,
which communicates the surrender of Co
morn castle. It is as follows
Having nothing of importance to commu
nicate, I did not intend writing today, buttbe
news I have just heard is of too great impor
tance to allow me to remain silent. I allude
to the surrender of Comorn Caatle. My au
thority is too good to admit of doubt, and
there is reason for believing that the public
are purposely kept in ignorance of the event
till after tbe banquet has taken place, General
Haynau reserving the grand piece of intelli
gence for a post prandium speech.”
Germany.— Ihe Cologne quoting
the Nuretnburg Corresponds/, gives the sub
joined, as the basis cf arrangement between
Austria and Prussia, relative to the new Cen
tral Government of Geimany “1. There
shall be established between the German Gov
ernments, in accordance with tbe administra
tors of the empire, a new ad interim Central
eminent, which shall he exercised by
Austria and Prussia to the Ist of May,
2. The object of this is io maintain the Gar
man Confedeiation as the indissoluble union
of all the German States. 3. During the in
terim, the affair of the Constitution of Ger
many is left to the tree arrangement of the
States. 4. If at the expiration of the interim
nothing be done, an understanding shall be
come to with respect to the Constitution of the
new Central Government.
5. A Commission of the Empire, composed
of four members, two of whom shall be nomi
nated by Austria, and two by Prussia, shall
direct, under the presidency of Austria (which
presidency, however, shall only be an affair of
etiquette,) the affairs which were attributed
to the Special Council of the old Diet the
other Governments of the confederation shall
send Plenipotentiaries to the Commission.—
b. The Commission of the Empire shall only
be tesponsible to those bv whom it is nomina
ted. 7. At soon as the Government shall
have given their assent to the preceding prop
osition, tbe administration of tbe Empire shall
deposit its dignity and powers ui the hands of
the Emperor of Austria and tbe King of Prus
sia.” Other accounts, however, say that the
negotiations between Austria and Prussia
have not yet assumed any definite fonp.
Russia. The Gntoasuin Gazette saya
that tbe Russians have attacked the fortress
of Achulga, tbe seat of Schamyi. Aa soon
ae the first attack of the Russians bad been
repolaed by tbs Circassians, ths RussiaDj 1
commenced a fresh attack, and after a bloody
contest, stormed this fortress that forms the
key of the enemy's position. Tbs Russians
lost in dead tod wounded 26 officers and 307
men. On Jaly 27th s general attack was
made on the fortress of Achulga. The Cir
cassians wen fffrywbere repaired. The
Russians loti on tin* day in dead and
ed W officer* and 883 soldiers.
Sraw.—Advices from Gibraltar stale Ux
Spanish fort res* of Metilim had haan rniafac
ad by troops, and that the expedition again*
the Moor* was, in consequence, postponed.
BlnincTr-M—Toloyy, Ac,
W hkatlaxd, 10th, iatch, 1840.
F. OoreLAsa, Dear Friend. —l am on mi
return Iron a short visit to
While there, I spent ooe evening at Conn
thian Hall. When I entered, the
lecture had already commenced. The speak
er seemed laboring to show the influence o
mind upon mind. To ooe having a tolcrnbli
knowledge of human nature, this is no nev
doctrine. The illustration* ia the expert
meats which followed the lecture were eer
uinly an amaaing exhibition of the almost on
limited control one person may exert ove
the tastes and prejudices, tflbetioos and re
pulsions of another^
After the lecture some fifteen or twentj
persons of both sexes, voluntarily came for
ward to ascertain whether they were suscep
tible of receiving the mysterious influence
A half dime set in tine was then placed ir
each of their hands upon which they were di
rected to place their entire attention—un
necessary advice, one would suppose, in ibii
age of acquisitiveness. This being done fot
some five minutes, the operator in a verj
quiet manner, made a few passes over tlx
forehead and eyes of each, and then anothei
pause when the same operation waa again
performed, and then another pause, when thr
operator again passed and took from each tht
precious metsl which lay before them
Some were so stupid as not to mind it, while
others appeared not quite so contented in
paiting with the attractive gem. Let me
heie suggest for the benefit of friends Fi&ke
and Burr, that they obtain some California
gold to place in the hands of their subjects.
It strikes me that it would have the remark*
able effect of quieting their nerves in much
less time than silver. And if suffered to re
main there it might have the excellent effect
of allaying the California fever. But to
pass on.
There was another performance not very
easily described, when it was ascertained who
were, and who were not under the influence
of the operator. Four of the number were
then asked to take seats upon the platform—
one a lad of about sixteen, the son of a rela
of mine (by marriage) living near the city.
One seemed not inclined to go, but the pre
cious metal being placed before his eyes, he
seemed unavoidably drawn in the direction of
and upon the platform.
Various amusing experiments were then
performed, plainly evincing that the subjects
were to a great extent, if not wholly under
the influence of the operator, and this too
while apparently awake. Water seemed to
them to taste like vinegar, honey, pepper
mint, cologne, or anything that friend Fiske
chose to have it tasts. They were placed
in various positions and then told to alter their
position if they could. Every effort seemed
anavailing. Their condition was unchange
able till told “all right,” when they were in
itantly as if by magic restored to the entire
aossession of all their faculties and 1
Their memory was taken and restored at
will. Objects were made to assume different
:olors. Now the building w r as a Court House,
ind their number divided in the court, coun
jel, officer, and prisoner,—now the scene was
:hanged and the entire building enveloped in
[lames, —instantly those magic words all
rig fit,” would restore them to their wonted
composure. It was truly diverting to see
cold water called vinegar by one, and honey
lay his next neighbor.
What, sir, do you call that stuff honey?”
I do sir.”
Allow me to tell you that you are no
judge of taste.”
Do you intend to insult roe, air I”
Not at at all, only that you are very much
mistaken sir.”
Poor fellows, each thought himself right,
yet both were mistaken. What a picture of
life
But a brother hints that I may make my arti
cle too long to be received. A proposition to
Fiske and Burr, and I close. You are aware
that about one in every six of the population
of this country is a Slave—that this nation is
so completely under the controlling influence
of some three hundred thousand individuals
that they make them believe we have a dem
ocratic government, and that our institutions
for the diflusion of Light, Liberty, and gen
eral prosperity are unequalled. You must
be conscious that men and women somewhere
have been too long gazing upon the glittering
coin,that thousands upon thousands of your fel
low citizens are in a delusion, and that this
spell may prove fatal if too long continued.
Can't it be thrown off? Suppose you place
yourselves upon the California side of this na
tion, and place the precious metal sufficiently
near the eyes of slaveholders and their abet
tors, to draw them by its magic influence to
the regions of gold. This should be done in
such a manner that the victims of their cupid
ity—their slaves, may be left behind. If you
can get the thing effected, the mysterious de
lusion that now rests upon this nation may be
removed—the spell broken. But if this ex
periment does not succeed, suppose you
practice your art of turning white to black
and black to white. To be sure the blacks at
the South are gradually turning white, but if
it could all be done up at once, on as abort no
tice as you perform this operation io Corin
thian Hall, it would be exceedingly difficult
for masters to identify their slaves when they
chose to leave them. They would make so
many blunders that they would aooo give up
the Peculiar Institution u a bad job. Now
my friends, if you will turn your attention to
this subject, you will aooo be able to decide
whether my proposition is a feasible one. If
however, you will consent to use the subject
of slavery as well as the Salem Witchcraft,
to illoetrate your position of the potency of
mind upon mind, and honestly and fearlessly
show up the unnatural relation that exists be
tween Master and Slave, the North and the
South, the skvebolder sod hie eocthezn pet
roe—end do no mors than this, you wifi not
only do a good dead far your country, but be
doing mm the lus* to advance your favorite
“1 wish tbs witnaasM on both aides would
tell the mom story,” Mid a countryman serv
ing on a jury, “for then I should not be pus-
Notices.
The Execs live Committee a f tbe W«m
New York Anti-Slavery Sanity vrffl Met at
the boeae of Isaac Port, SB, Sophia street,
on Saturday ereniog, October 90th, at half
poat aix o'clock, P. M. t prmctaally.
JOHN DICK, Sex.
AntUSlnrery Icetuf la Htariatta.
Frederick Doo|laaa intends to defiver an
Anti-Slavery Address io Henrietta, on Son
day, Oct. 28, commencing at 7e*eloek, r. m
precisely.
CJ* Will friends make arrangements.
The Sewing Chela
Of the Ladies of tbe Western New York
Anti-Slavery Society, will meet at the hooee
of F BEDcaicx Docqlass, 4, Alexander street,
on Wednesday, Oct. 84th, at three o'clock,
r- n. An early attendance is reqseated.
Bfco4e blui AatMbmrr tlirtitj—
Auiil Meetlag.
Tb« fourteenth uuiull meeting of the Rhode
Inland Anti-Slavery Society, will be held at
Mechanic’a Hall, Providence, on Wednesday
Md Thursday, Oct. 31st and Nov. Ist, 1849.
Prominent advocates of emancipation—em
bracing several who have broken the chains of
•Uvery, nod are breathing the free air of Heav
en, in defiance of Southern laws—have been
invited to be present, and will, it is expected,
give valuable aid to our own earnest laborers,
in making the meeting an interesting and pro
fitable one to all who shall deem it worthy of
their pieaeoce.
Much has been done for our cause during
the past year, but much yet remains for such
to do as are not soon weary with doing well.
The geographical boundaries of slavery in our
own country have been fixed by the public
voice, and cannot, it is confidently believed,
be cairied further from the centre of our ini
quity. But it remains to blot out the foul
stain where it already exists, and to hasten
the glad hour when the angel of Time shall
“7» ‘Thus far hast thou come —but no far
ther.” 1 o this end we invite the old and the
young, the strong, the feeble, the confident,
the desponding, and the faithless, to meet
with us, at our annual gathering, and
share in our hopes, our encouragements, our
joys, and our labors.
In behalf of the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery
Society.
JOHN BROWN, Pres’t.
Amarancy Paine, Sec’y.
Providence, Oct. 6th, 1849.
An Appeal in behalf of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slaver
in this land, and being deeply convinced tha
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt mora
sentiment, the undersigned members an<
friends of the Western New York Anti-slaverj
Society, again make their appeal to th<
friends of the Slave in behalf of their annua
Bazaar, which will be held in Rochester ir
December next.
While we have been cheered and gladdened
a progress already made, and the good
cause of the bondman among persons,, ancf in
quarters where we had least expected them,
we still see the “harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few,” and instead of relaxing
our efforts, we are impressed with a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
of advancing this holy cause.—We appeal the
more boldly to our friends because those for
whom we plead cannot plead for themselves.
While we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid,
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—
personal—and political. Remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, we desire to
plead their cause as though they were on our
own limbs, and the knotted lash were applied
to our own backs.
While to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our annual Fair, it is not the only one. A
great amount of good may be traced directly
to such occasions. Many who are now ac
tive workers in behalf of this holy movement
became first interested in it through the in
strumentality of those annual exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
The present object of the Rochester anti
slavery Bazaar is fur the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject of sla
very. Recognizing the North Star, (published
in this city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds raised
by the Sale of articles at the Bazaar (on
behalf of which we here appeal) shall be
mainly appropriated to the support of that
important paper.
We gatefully acknowledge the prompt as
sistance rendered to out last Fair by our
friends and coadjutors in various parts of our
own State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with as in the good wotk. That no time may
be lost, we especially recommend to them the
immediate formation of sewing circles in their
various towns with a view to making articles
for the Rochester Bazaar. We would also,
in this connection render our heartfelt thanks
to our British friends for the valuable aid ex
tended by them to our last year's Fair and
we would again warmly solicit their generous
assistance. It is due to our trans-Atlantic
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
in our last Bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded that tbeir continued
co-operation will essentially promote the suc
cess of our approaehiog December Bazasr,
and the advancement of the cause of the slave
in our land.
We hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend itself te out philanthropic friends on
both aides of the Atlantic, and that they will
cordially unite with us ia the effort here pro
posed.
Best sot—inglorious rest
Uaearvea the me;
Suiuk —’tii God’* behest!
Fill op life’s little spun
With God-like deeds—it is the Mat-
Test of the high have seel.
And lofty aim;
The teat ia hiatal's stroll
Of every hneetW name:
Noee bat tha Brava shall win the goal!
Sioned on behalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST.
Appeal o i the rhUndrtpt In Association
The “Women's Aeaomatien of Philadel
phia" appeal to »’banevoleai public, and in
the friend* of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, tbe oh
iect of which if to sustain the “North Star."
To those who are hmiliar with the pages of
this paper it la naoeeaaary to apeak of its
merit. To thoon who have not anon it wo
may say, that we regard it as oao oflho very
best asd-slavery ieatnimaatalitiea now in the
held.
We are the more interested in it, because
the editor is one of o«r opprrmod race, and
sdmiiaOlv qualified by tuatalents and moral
worth, to nerfarm wkh credit the wdoeoa
task of edmng n *nr
w Wiw —4 tnw that on founds
will ftre as their bbnral a*d
Tn on own people wo look earnest! v mok
SSH? M
levam* The mm has inland mo yon soak.
Ye f« heavily, hmi 4m to the sen 4m,
dwpmtmi, cnahod by the weight of oppras
aao. Ye hear the tiaou of the enomy,
“Thejr an so itmant and eneiaed! They
aie jealous of one other! Yea, they ante
bet it is only to pet dove one who is nors
lotelleetaal teas the ansa?** Prose by the
unerring language of eee4oet that these as
■ertioao so often thrown ia on frees are ao
hckws (bahts. Sastaia F. Douglas*, be*
cause his talents and correct principles de
mand your respect and confidence. Sastaia
bias because it is right to 4oao, and h—
of‘-he sweet peace the performaoce of so wo«-
tby as action will assuredly bring it mto yoor
DOMM,
The Fair will be held oo Christmas week.
Donations for it any be seat to
HARRIET SMITH, 319 T
RACHEL LLOYD. 303 iWotreet,
AMY M. CASSEY.
Or lo toy nesbor of Um Amoiuob.
Euzaarra Am, Ltwa An Birr ill,
Mast Baaaorr. Hem Beau,
Louisa Baistol, Heua Johkson,
Hcstbu Bcstill, Eliza Jonas,
Chaalotte Mills.
SARAH M. DOUGLASS, Cor. Sec'y.
No 54 Mullberry at.
Philadelphia, 6th mo., 25, 1849.
Testiwosy raoa Little Foot, lII.
S lona’s Ovum sad Caadition Powder ac me
knowiedged bjr all who have used then, lo hr the
best rowdy for Homo sod Chula. that km* faro*
discovered. Fresh woaads, gabs, spavins, ring*
boos, poll evil, sad ia short every ootward disorder
and injury can be cared by this wonderful remedy.
The Powder is designed for inward strains, distem
per, lots of appetite, bide-boasd, fatigue from hud
exercise, diseased eyes, fcc —LaJu Cm. CknmcU.
99* See Agents* name, at the bead of Sloan*s
Column. For further particular* and testimonials
get pamphlets of agents.
WisTaii’s Balsam or Wild Chkkkt.—
Wf have not (infrequently called attention to this
article in the column* of our paper, aad we hare
done so with the foil confidence that it waa a good
oae, and deserving the confidence of the public. We
hare had a chance to witness its effects upon some
of our friends, which in addition to the high en
comiums passed upon it by our hrnihren of the
press, not in paid puffs, but in honest candid state
ments, from haring derived benefit themselves,
makes up desirous of advising all those who have
occasion to resort to a remedy for pulmonary affec
tions, to avail themselves of it. We have too
much confidence in Mr. Fowle thefgeneral agent, to
believe he would thrust this or any other medicine
upon the community, unless he had bill faith in iu
efficacy—in confirmation of which the proprietor
offers a mass of testimony from the most unquestion
able sources. Neither would we be understood as
saying that this will always cure consumption after
it is seated, although it seldom fails to relieve the
worst cases; but at this season of the year almost
everybody is liable to a cold, which if neglected
will lead to fatal results. By taking this medicine
we doubt not many lives may be saved.—Arw Eng
land WatktngUmian.
From the Batavia Spirit of the rimes.
This is one of the very few patent medicines of
the day which we can recommend with confidence
to all who are afflicted with Coughs, Colds or Con
sumption or who are predisposed to the latter com
plaint. It has been used with considerable advan
tage by many families in town, and in a few stub
born cases bas produced highly beneficial effects.
None genuine unless signed I. BUTTS.
For sale by Post Willis; also by Wm.
Pitkin
Mr. Cobden ON WAR LOANS.
The following Speech wee deliver*
by Richard Cobden at the Peace Coo
grew in Paris:
The Chairman, on the reauroptioi
of the sitting, proceeded to read thi
i fourth resolution, thus worded:
j The Congress strongly disapprove
lof all loans and taxes destined to pro
mote wars of ambition or conquest.”
Mr. Cobde*. M. P., presented him
,sell in the tribune, and was receive*
with immense applause.. He deliver*
'in French a speech, of which the fol
lowing is a translation:—l have th<
honor to submit to your consideratioi
a resolution condemnatory of loans fo
warlike purposes. My object is t<
promote peace by withholding the sin
jews of war. 1 propose that this Con
jgress shall make an appeal to the con
sciences of all those who have
'to lend [hear, hear]. Ido not t<
a tew bankers who appear bißftMh l
the world as loan cent rectors.
are the ageuts only for collecting fuS|
from smaller capitalists. It is from tin
savings and accumulations of the mer
chants, manufacturers, traders, agri
iculturists, and annuitants ofcivilizei
i Europe, that warlike governments cai
alone supply their necessities, and t<
them we will appeal by every motivi
,of self interest and humanity not t
lend their support to a barbarous sys
tem which obstructs commerce, uproot
industry, annihilates capital and labor
and revels amidst the tears and bloo<
of their fellow creatures. We w ill d<
more; we will in every possible waj
expose the character and objects, an<
exhibit to the world the true state o
the resources of every governmen
which endeavors to contract a loan foi
warlike purposes. The time is gon<
by when barbarous nations devoted t<
j war could conquer civilized Europe
unless, indeed, the latter will be s<
complacent as to lend the money nec
essary for its own subjugation [hear
hear]. War has become an expen
sive luxury. It is no longer a ques
tion of bows and arrows, swords an<
shields [cheers]. Battles are now de
cided by artillery, and every dischargt
of a cannon costs from twelve to fifteer
francs; I wish with all my heart it wat
ten times as much [loud applause]
The consequence is, that when coun
tries behind the rest of Europe in civi
lization enter upon hostilities, they ar<
obliged immediately to draw upon th<
resources of more civilized states—ii
other words, to raise a loan; and hov
is the money thus borrowed from th<
1 savings of honest industry expended
What is war in our day Has it learn
ed any of the charities of peace? Le
us see. I hold in my hand an extrac
from a proclamation issued at Pesth
dated 19th July, and signed Haynau.’
Praying forgiveness for your outrage!
feelings, I will read it:—
Any individual who shall, either b;
word or action, or by wearing any rev
olutionary signs or emblems, dare t<
support the cause of the rebels; an;
diers.or those of our brave allies, eithe
by words or blows; any individual wh
shall enter into criminal relations wit
the enemies of the crown, or who sha
seek to kindle the flame of rebellion b
reports spread for sinister purposes, o
who shall be rash enough to concea
arms, or not to deliver them up withii
the day fixed by my proclamation, shal
be put to death within the shortest pos
sible delay, and on the spot where th<
crime shall be committed, without dis
tinction of condition or sex.”
[Loud cries of“ butchers! butchers!’
This was addressed to the inhabi
tants of Pesth; and a few weeks late
the same signature appeared to a proc
tarnation addressed to the inhabitant
of the Theiss, from which also I wil
read a short extract and which I mus
declare to be the policy of the devi
i[loud laughter]:—
“Take care not to incur my ven
geance. Not being able in such a casi
to find out the guilty party, I shall b<
compelled to punish the whole district
ilfon the territory occupied by my ar
my, or on (lie rear, any offence sha!
be committed against my soldiers, or i
'any of the convoys should be stopped
or a courier, or the transport ofprovis
ions prevented, an .immediate punish
ment shall be inflicted on the guilt*
commune; and it shall become a prey
the flames mid shall be levelled to th
ground, to serve as a frightful example
toother communes.”
(Renewed cries of butchers! butch
ers!’’) I ask you, whilst your flesl
creeps and your hair bristles with hor
ror at jhese quotations, has war bor
t rowed any of the charities of Chris
tianityr Have modern warriors repu
dialed the practice of the barbarian;
of antiquity? part I can see
no difference between Attila and Hay
nau, between the Goth of the fifth anc
the Goih of the nineteenth century
But we address ourselves to those whe
by their loans really hire and pay the
men who commit these atrocities, anc
we say, It is you who give strength
to the arm w hich murders innocent wo
men and helpless old age; it is you whe
supply the torch which reduces to ash
es peaceful inoffensive villages, and or
your souls will rest the burden of these
crimes against humanity.” 1 shall be
told that it is useless to make an ap
peal to the sensibilities of men who,
with money lying unproductive at the
bottom of their ‘pockets, are thinkiug
of but five per cent.
I will undertake to prove, though I
shall not weary jou with an opinion
upon the subject, that peace will offer
a lar better field for the employment oi
the savings of agriculture than the field
of battle, and that she wil! afford a
much more profitable investment for
the accumulations of industry than in
partnership with Haynau and Co.
This discussion will be raised again
and again in various places. The Con
gress of Nations will make the tour of
the civilized world. You, Frenchmen
and trench women, who have recei
ved with so much enthusiasm your En
glish visitors, in whose name I thank
you—who have known so well bow to
show the noble seal in the cause of hu
manity, which has prompted your A
merican guests to cross the great At
lantic—who have welcomed the pres
ence of Germans, Belgians, and Dutch
men, and the representative# of other
nations in this h>B—yoi have impaired
to the Ponce Congress a great moral
power, wfcieh its members will sodoa
ror to nH for the benefit of humanity.
We shall leave you with renewed hope
and courage, confident that we hare
only to persevere resolutely, but legal
ly, aod always in a moral sense, and
step by step we shall propagate the
sublime idea which now reigns in this
hall, till it embraces within its influence
all the nations of the earth [loud and
long-continued applause].
Fnmi Tke ChnxXjpe.
THE WHITE SLAVE.
I was standing on the piazza of the
hotel, in company with several
others, when an elegant carriage drove
up, and an old gentleman, of command
ting figure and a benevolent expression
of countentee, and accompanied by
(three young ladies and a black servant,
alighted and entered the Hotel. Two
of the young Ipdies, who from their re
semblance, appeared to be sisters, were
elegantly dressed, but there was noth
ing in their personal appearance to at-
attention. The third was more
ttired, but there was an unde-
about her that fixed every
eye upon her, from the first glimpse.
Her form was exquisitely moulded, and
there was grace in every motion. She
was a brunette, with eyes as dark as
midnight and as bright as stars, and
hair—a curl or two of which escaped
beneath her bonnet, which might vie
with the raven’s wing in blackness,
i Every one at first sight pronounced her
beautiful, and our first impressions
were afterwards entirely confirmed.
At dinner the other two young ladies
appeared with their father, for such the
old gentleman appeared to be, but our
dark-eyed beauty was nowhere to be
seen. At the supper table we looked
again for her, but in vain. Thinking
that she might have been taken sud
denly ill, some one took occasion after
supper, to make some inquiries regar
ding her, and was told that she was
only a servant! Servant in this coun
try is usually synonymous with slave.
Could that beautiful girl be a slave?
Though her complexion was dark, there
were no signs of African blood either
in her color or her features. A slave?
Impossible!
The following is the substance of
what I have since learned concerning
her:
i In the year 18—Mr. the old
gentleman of whom I have spoken, pnr
j chased with other slaves a dirty sun
burnt child, of four or five years of age
who was evidently not of the Negro
race. The slave-dealer said that he
bought her of a Cherokee, in upper
Georgia, and that he was told she had
Indian blood in her veins. This was
all he knew of her.' She fell into his
hands in the way ol trade, and that was
enough for him. Mr. had the
little dark-eyed barbarian washed and
decently clothed, and finally, struck
with her beauty and intelligence, made
out free papers” for her and assu
ming the office of a guardian sent her
to school. She made great proficiency
lent education. Since leaving school
she has been in the family of Mr.
In private, I am told, she has ever
been treated as a companion and not
as a servant, by the young ladies, but
to associate with her in public, as an
equal, would never do, for in the eves
of both the civil and the social laws of
the South, no matter how white she
may be, she is only a “free person of
color.” This in the Model ofßepub
lies, one of the articles of whose creed
i is, “All men are created free and
equal!”
It is said that our pretty brunette is
now engaged to be married to a young
man of high connections, who, despite
the remonstrances of friends, and the
frowns of a false society, will make her
I the mistress of one of the finest homes
in the South!
“Truth is stranger than fiction!”
THE GAMBLER’SFATE.
In one of the low gambling-houses
in Leicester Square, Cecil sat, as in a
dream, risking the fruits of his crime. I
His brain whirled around, and his
heart beat every time the door opened; 1
for he could not drive away the fear
.that his forgery had been detected,
and that they were coming to arrest
him.
He had dishonored himself to play
j this new game which Frank had ex
plained to him; and now that the crime
i was committed, he could not profit
t>£ it!
Such a game required, above all
others, consummate coolness and self
mastery; Cecil was more agitated, his
biam was more confused than ever it
had been, and he played utterly at ran
dom. It would be difficult to conceive
greater torture than that which he en
dured, lor he won without satisfaction,
and lost with agony; his brain was not
so confused but that he had a distinct
perception of his situation, and the ne
cessity of playing every coup as if for
i hie but at the same time his brain was
so drugged with horror and despair,
(hat his will seemed paralyzed, and he
was forced, as by an unseen hand, into
the ruin which he saw yawning be
fore him.
While the cards were dealt with me
chanical precision by the impassive
dealer, and Cecil’s crime-fnrnished
golo was passing away before bis eyes,
visions of his happy youth, of his ear
ly days of marriage, and healthy activ
ity floated before his mind; and he, the
gambler, on the edge of that dark gulf
which gaped before him, turned back
hia thoughts to those sunny days when
his soul was stainless*, and his life was
full of love and hope, of activity and
happiness; it was like a small wild flow
er on a mass ol loosening rock, which
the next gust of wind will quite unloo
sen, and tumble thundering into the
ravine.
He thought of his mother, and of
her dying injunctions; and her words
of blessing fell upon his ear just as the
dealer, in his passionless voice, pro
claimed—‘Black wins.’ r
A heap of gold was swept away be
fore him.
For hours did this tortured games
ter play; becoming gradually inured to
the pais he suffered, and deadened to
the whispers of conscience.
It was now eleven o'clock. The
room was full of player. A succee-
mod of Dew facet replaced tboae wbo
ooe by oie fell off, contented with their
winnings, or (and this was by far the
moat frequent case) desperate from tbeir
loaeea. But Cecil never moved.—He
celled lor wine occasional! y but nothing
interrupted hia play.
Hia last three sovereigns were sta
ked upon the black; his life was on the
hazard of that one deal. Even the old
players, accustomed to every species
of intense emotion, could not keep
their eyes off Cecil, as with parted lips,
■training eyes, and purple face, he
watched the rapid progress of the
game. Intensely they felt the moment
was supreme.
He lost?
With a bunt of uncontrollable de
spair, be snatched the rake from the
hand of the croupier, who had just
■wept away his momey, and with both
hands snapped it in two; a murmur fol
lowed this act of violence, which only
seemed preparatory to something worse
but he glared round upon the players
with such a look of mad fury that they
were awe-stricken.
Instead of any further violence, how
ever, he broke out into a wild hysteri
cal laugh, which made their blood run
cold, and staggered out of the house.
In that moment which had preceded
his wild laugh, a vision of his young
wife and child destitute—starving—
thinned with want and sickness—had
appeared to him, and, as in a flash re
vealed to him the hideous extent of
his rain.
Beggared, dishonored, stained with
a profitless crime, nought remained for
him but death; and in death he resol
ved to still the throbbing of his agony.
THE SIMOOM OF THE DESERT—
-30,000 PEOPLE BURIED ALIVE.
Mr. Buckingham, in one of his let
ters, gives an interesting account of
the simoom of the desert.
He states that from the great inse
curity of persons and property, there
is but little traveling except in caravans.
These frequently comprise 40,000 cam
els, attended by thirty or forty persons.
Flying horsemen, scouring in full speed
the surrounding country, secure them
from sudden attack, but the chief dan
ger they have to encounter is the hot
blast of the desert. Its approach is
tokened by a lurid stream in the heav
ens, such as may sometimes he seen
in American sunsets. It is a sign well
understood by the natives, and they
prepare for it immediately. It comes
like the heated air from the fiery fur
nace suddenly opened, producing faint
ing and lassitude, and soon increasing
in violence, it raises the soft sand clouds
penetrating the eyes, nose and mouth,
and insinuating itself beneath the gar
ments. The camels are halted at the
sound of a bugle, or some other well
known signal, and are arranged in lines
of a hundred or a thousand, each with
their backs turned to the quarter from
whence the simoom is expected, and
beneath the shelter thus afforded, the
men prostrate themselves upon the
ground. The drifting sand, opposed
in its course, rises in a little while to
tlfher n eide eff 'BPow° Ph°e U y r
must again bestir themselves, if they
would not be buried where they lie.
Although the atmosphere is thick with
the yellow sand, producing darkness
so total that one cannot see an exten
ded hand, and darkness too that can be
felt—a new position is to be taken, a
new line of camels to be formed, and
the same operation gone through with. 1
This is often necessary to be done
many times, until reduced to perfect
helplessness by exhaustion, they sink
and die, and are buried beneath the
sand. The groans of the women and
the blended cries of men and beasts,
help to make the scene awful beyond
description. One of these simooms to
which Mr. Buckingham was exposed,
lasted 18 hours; and of a caravan of
30,000 persons returning from a pilgri-'
mage to Mecca, to the shrine of Ma
homet, which was overtaken by this de
stroying blast, only eighteen escaped
to tell the tale.—
fresh-air.
Man acts strangely. Although a
current of fresh air is the very life of
his lungs, he seems indefatigable in the
exercise of his inventive powers to de
prive himself of this heavenly blessing.
Thus he carefully closes every cranny
of his bedchamber against its entrance,
and he prefers that his lungs should re
ceive the mixed effluvium from his cel
lar and larder, and from a patent little
modern aquarius, in lieu of it. Why
should man be so terrified at the admis
sion of the night air into any of his a
partments? It is nature's overflowing
current, and never carries the destroy
ing angel with it. See how soundly the
delicate little wreu and tender robin
sleep under its full and immediate in
fluence, and how fresh and vigorous
they rise amid the surrounding dew
drops of the morning. Although expos
ed all night long to the air of heaven,
their lungs are never out of order, and
this we know by the daily repetition of
their song. Look at the newly-born
hare, without any nest to go to. It lives
and thrives, and becomes strong and
playful, under the unmitigated inclem
ency of the falling dews of the night.
1 1 have here a fine male turkey, full
eight years old, and he has not passed
a single night in shelter. He roosts in
a cherry tree, and is always in primest
health the year throughout. Three
dung-hill fowls, preferring this cherry
tree to the warm perches in the hen
house, took up their airy quarters with
him early in October, and have never
since gone to any other roosting-place.
The cow and the horse sleep safely on
the cold damp ground, and the roc-buck
lies down to rest in the heather, oo the
dewy mountain top. I inrself can sleep
all night long, bareheaded, under the
full moon’s watery beams, without any
fear of danger, and pass the day in wet
shoes without catching cold. Coughs
and colds are generally caught in the
transition from an overheated room to a
cold apartment; but there would be no
danger is this movement if ventilation
w «re attended to—a precaution little
thought of now-a-days.— WaUr*m’s
Etkayt on .Yatural History.
A gentleman looking upon an exten
sive conflagration, expressed bis sur
priae in three words, each the name of
an English author— 1 Dickens, How
It Burns
