A Brief Account of Israel French , late of the vicinity of Richmond, Wayne County, Indiana; by his sister, Emma Steer, Now in her 75th Year of Age
It lias Ion" been in my mind to write
Home account ot my end**ared lirother s*
life and labors, (05 the education and
encouragement of his jnany valuable
friends, who are still endeavoring to;
advance the cause of Peace and Right-j
e msness in the earth; believjng I know j
more of him than any -person*living, j
having been his friend and confidant,
through our youth—we held corre
spondence when separated; and during
those seasons of absence, affinities ol 1
mind were revealed which endeared us
still more to each other, and led us to
prize the privilege of improvement in
each other’s society; and during the!
years of my widowhood, I was also one
of his family for the last 23 years of his
life. j
He was born in Frederick County,
Maryland, the 21st of 10th mo., l/7t).,
11 is disposition was naturally quiet, not
inclined to interfere with the comfort of
others, hut very quick to resent imposi
tion. Our mother died when he was
only five years of age. In the course
of his childhood and youth, being ex
posed to many trials, he so tully over
came or regulated his temper, that he
was seldom seen ruffled by anything,yet
always exhibited a keen sense ot justice
and firm independence of mind.
lie was very early impressed with
Anti-Slavery feeling, in the following
manner: Being on an errand one morn
ing, he crossed the farm of a slave
holder on his way home, and meeting
some little hoys, went to play with
them, till they heard a horn blow, when
the boys ran quickly to the quarter
for their breakfast. It being on his
way, he went with them, and saw them
receive their gourd* of cold mush, con
taining only about two spoonbills for
tticli, and they kindly offered lmn some,
hut he took his leave, and walked home
ruminating on their condition, and
querying why it was that these lively,
sensible, kind little creatures might not
be as free as he was. A deep sense of
the injustice of slavery fixed on his
mind, and increased with time and ob
servation; and he was afterwards the
means of convincing their master’s son
so that he formed a resolution never to
own a slave; and leaving Maryland,
without any assistance from his father,
settled in Ohio.
At 10 years of age, my brother was
apprenticed to a tailor, in Virginia,
where he was exposed to many snares.
Our father was a man of strict justice
and integrity, and truly Christian
spirit; hut having placed his son ac
cording to the requisitions of the disci
pline, in a settlement of Friends, and
with a member of the society, he trust
ed all would he well. When about to
leave us. my sister set the alphabet, in
writing, for him to learn, that we might
correspond, which we did from that in
struction alone on his part. He could
only read the New Testament when he
left us, but continued to improve by
his own exertion and attention, during
the very few leisure moments he eould
get, having no more opportunity of in
struction till near 18 years of ago. He
was released from his hard servitude
by an arbitration. Having suffered
much abuse, he loft the place with a
determination not to return, and made
application to a justice of the peace,
which caused the case to be examined,
and resulted iu his liberty, after which,
he devoted some time to the study of
arithmetic, book-keeping, surveying,
navigation, &c., and he might truly he
raid to he self-educated, for to the end
THE NORTH STAR.
of time with him, his comprehensive
mind was ever embracing all that was
useful in science and literature.
At the period to which I have re
ferred, being very deficient in what he
conceived to be a competent knowl
edge of his trade, he settled to work in
Baltimore, as the most likely place to
accomplish his object. His health was
sometimes affected by close confine
ment to business, and at those seasons,
his relatives and friends in the country
were refreshed by his sojourn among
them. His disposition to udd to the
enjoyment of others, and not amuse
himself at the expense of the feelings
of any, ever rendered him a welcome
guest.
In all situations, he strictly avoided
the use of spirituous liquors, though
often urged to participate, as the prac
tice was very common with many in
those times, frequently remonstrating
upon the deleterious influence thereof.
In the city, he walked mostly alone,
for he found there were those who
would lead him into snares, many of
which he hut was favored joyfully
and thankfully to escape.
He acquired a marked solidity of de
portment, tempered with habitual cheer
fulness; and he attended meetings of
all religious societies, in which he was
steady and attentive to their doctrines
and ceremonies, and at length settled
his mind on sending for a certificate of
his right in the Society of Friends,
whose early doctrine he approved. He
could not join with some religious au
thors in decrying human reason, be
lieving it had preserved him from many
dangers; that it was the recipient ot
the Llivine Spirit, and co-operating to
gether, evil was avoided, and good
embraced, and thus good fruits pro
duced in life aud conduct. He always
cherished a reverence for religion, but
thought it was not so mystical as many
suppose, hut plain and clear, and com
prehensive to a sound rational under
standing. He thought the rationality
bestowed on us by the Creator, by
which wc arc distinguished from the
brute creation, very different from
the serpentine insinuations of pride,
that greatest darkener of reason, and
most subtle and potent enemy of man
kind. It was, and continued to he, his
belief that many who promulgated doc
trines shrouded in mystery, were prob
ably unacquainted with real religion,
and were hut blind leaders of the
blind.” He maintained an equal stand
between priestcraft and that slate of so
ciety which a rejection of religion has
a tendency to create. He read the
Scriptures much in ekrly life, for he
wished to understand them for himself,
not depending upon the expositions of
otli£r&. He prized nftmy truths they
contain, as most excellent for instruc
tion, edification and comfort, and con
tinued to do so through all the course of
his life. Though he chose the Society
of Friends for his regard to the princi
ples they early professed, he was not
blind to their failings in his day, and
often met w.th those who could not
brook plain-dealing; hut there were
others with whom a “lasting friendship
was cemented thereby, and with the
society of such as those, his mind was
cheered through all the checkered
scenes of his life.
About the 25th year of his age, he
i married Deborah Phillips, of York,
Pennsylvania, who proved indeed a
worthy companion of his pilgrimage.—
They settled in Maryland, in his native
county, where he was surrounded by
1 slaveholders, who gave him many op
portunities of remonstrating with them
upon the iniquity of dealing in human
beings; and after he left Mary land, was
often heard to say, he did not know but
j he ought to have remained there, to
I labor for the extinction of slavery, for
he was not satisfied w r ith being out of
i sight of it, believing there was a great
j work to do, and he was desirous of
performing his part in “breaking every
yoke, and letting the oppressed go
free.”
His remove to Ohio was in 1812; and
the first anti-slavery effort he there en
gaged in, was the formation of the
Uniou Humane Society,” one of the
objects of which was to assist fugitives
j Heeingfrom oppression,in which service
he was actively engaged. His house
was the first that could be seen on en
tering Mount Pleasant, Jefferson coun
ty, Ohio, and this becoming known to
them, they were enabled to gain its
1 shelter without inquiry, where they were
comfortably equipped and facilitated on
I their perilous journey. It required
much vigilance on his part, as the man
hunters frequently visited his premises;
hut his perils and sacrifices were
cheerfully borne for the relief of the
oppressed, and he was often heard to
express his regret that they were
I obliged to seek so cold a clime as the
Canadas to ensure their safety. He
was always opposed to any scheme of
colonization, believing they ought to
have their liberty to remain where they
were uatives, m a state ol freedom; hut
when any asserted their right# by tak
ing flight, he would do ail in his power
to prevent their being re-tyken, aud
subjected again to the evils of sla
very.
Tlie Society of Friends in Ohio
was very pleasant to him for some
years. Many of its most active mem
bers were among his personal friends
with whom he could enjoy much free
dom in conversation. The meeting of
frienda and relatives from distant and
different parts of the country, at a
newly-established yearly meeting, made
it sown like a family of love, and all this
rendered it very interesting; but at
lengh a time came when this family was
1 shaken from centre to circumference by
the accusations against that faithful
friend and anti-slavery laborer, Elias
Hick*. It is well known to many that
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
h» first offence to hi* principal ac
cusers, was his testimony against sla
very, and his labor* with some who had
grown rich in the society by trade in
cotton goods, &e., which he deemed
sinful, and deserving the name of “prize;
goods,” against which the society pro
fessed to bear a loud and decisive testi
mony. Those who w ished to keep in
the quiet,” and enjoy themselves in
their own comfortable, selfish way, ac-l
cuscd Elias Hicks with holding and
promulgating doctrines contrary to the
ancient belief of the Society of Friends.
This controversy was carefully exam
ined by my brother, and being satisfied j
that be was in accordance with the;
early Friends, as much as when he w as
universally admired and applauded by
all, he used his endeavors to show that
there was no need of a division. He!
strove to be impartial in his investiga-;
lions, sought opportunities of being
where Elias Hicks was, both at meet
ings and in the private circle, without
being known to him, that he might be
able to judge of his spirit and doc
trines; and being satisfied that he was
actuated by a truly Christian spirit, he
did not longer hesitate, but invited him
to partake of the hospitalities of our
home, during his sojourn amongst us.
This caused a separation between him
and many of his former social friends,
who had now become full of party
spirit, and they disowned him, and ma
ny others. Being thus separated, he
entered into labors ainongt the accused
party. Having clearly seen, in the
workings of this division, the pernicious
influence of making a part of the meet
ing seleet,” by recommending minis
ters and appointing elders, he proposed
that everything making way for real or
supposed authority be dispensed with;
that we who were associated might ever
bear in remembrance the saying of
Jesus, One is your master, even
Christ, and all ye are brethren.” Ma
ny saw the propriety of this proposal,
but were over-ruled, and settled down
in the old forms, which gave room for
the aspiring again to assume the mas
tery, which was tlie cause of much la
bor and trouble to him, and many other
pure-spirited friends in different parts
of the society. And through the course
of his many trials, and while a member
of Indiana V. M,, his convictions on
this subject still deepened,strengthened,
and were expressed to his friend John
Mott, Michigan, only a few months 1
previous to his death, in the following
language:
N The mischievous contrivance of
Ordination, early friends bore a faithful
testimony against; but that.testimony
was let fall when they began to approve
ministers” and appoint “elder%”
This mode of ordination differs only fit
form from that of other sects" The re
sults arc tlfc same. The office in all is
to establish a privileged class, out of
which will eventually grow a mercenary
priesthood, and a sycophantic people.
Money is not the only item of priest’s
wages. Flattery is the most delicious
food to a w eak and aspiring mind. And
what, I ask, can gratify an inordinate
self-esteem more than to be raised to
the pmhacle of the temple, by those
whose ears are in turn pleased by hear
ing from the gallery or “sacred desk,”
the beautiful sound of eloquent ora
tory What a temptation is here pre
sented for weak, vain mortals to steal
the livery of heaven, and make it pan
der to their ow r n low ambition But
let us, iny dear friend, spend our little
remaining energies in striving to de
molish those images set up by our
modern Nebuchadnezzars, and rear in
its place a standard w*ith this inscrip
tion: 4 Salvation is of God, our Cre
ator,’ who seeth not as man seeth; He
has |prorniscd to be the teacher of his
people himself, requiring that ail should
use the talents committed to their care
to promote his glory, and bring about
a state of peace on earth and good will
among men, by doing good to each
other; commanding us to let our light
so shine before men, that they, seeing
our good works, may glorify him, our
Father in Heaven. Therefore, let our
watchword be, No secrecy, no pro
scription: light and lo\e will redeem
the world.”
His removal to the State of Indiana
was in the year 1832; and in 1834, the.
Declaration of Sentiments of tlie Ame
rican Anti-Slavery Society appeared,
and it cheered our spirits to see the
stand they had taken and the labor they
proposed to engage in. It revived our
hopes. He assisted in organizing so
cieties, and made way for lecturers;
also encouraged young persons, who,
in the freshness of feeling on first awa
kening to the importance of the sub
ject, seemed prepared to speak profita
bly thereon. His house was ever open
to all the friends of the cause, as many
can testify who have partaken of his
hospitality; arid our meeting-house was
never refused, though at Richmond,
where the monthly meeting was held to
which we belonged, they did not allow
theirs to be thus occupied. Still con
tinuing to attend monthly meetings,
where a disposition to disown their
members being very prevalent, he was
often led to expostulate with the rulers,
desiring the discipline administered in
the spirit of love, that it might have a
tendency to gather, rather than scatter.
But a rumor being raised among them,
that he wished to destroy order, and the
name of order having become an idul
among them, they were jealous of his
proposition to dispense with the “select
meetings,** and they kept up the err of
order, and slighted all labors of love
to prevent disownment, till at length he
became impressed with the belief
all excommunication was wrong, being
an emanation from the spirit of Anti
christ, and used for persecuting pur
poses. He would plead, that we ought
,to labor always, and not cast any off;
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, MAY 26, 1848.
that we should be willing to bear some
burdens, often citing the parable of the
lost sheep, which the shepherd would
bear on his shoulders rejoicing.
While these were hu thoughts and
feelings towards all, even the poor
criminal in prison, preparations were
making to disown him. Committees
were appointed to visit and revisit our
preparative meeting, and they produced
a minute from a called 44 meeting for
sufferings,” requiring us to forbid the
use of our meeting-house to anti-sla
very laborers; warning us against
'‘mixing with the world,” (they were
all the while actively engaged in politi
cal manoeuvres, and every scheme
which seemed to promise them the ag
grandizement of wealth or power.)-
They also required that none of our
members should lecture in what they
termed, the present popular manner.—
These demands he deemed unwarrant
able and grievous infringments of his
rights; and the cry of 44 mixing with the
world,” had not been able to deter him
from attending to his apprehensionss of
duty. They proceeded to lay down our
preparative meeting, and attach it to
their own, without which they could not
take up a complaint against him; then,
having all in their own hands, they
made up a complaint, and having gone
through the form, issued a testimony of
disownment against him. He appealed
to the Quarterly Meeting, not to con
tend for privileges which were no longer
desirable, but to exhibit their bigotry
and intolerance, and was looking to
wards carrying it to the Yearly Meet
ing; believing it to be his duty to arouse
the minds of the people to the inroads
and aggressions of sectarianism. But
at this period, he was attacked by the
prevailing fever of the country, which
terminated his existence. They went
through the form in the Quarterly
Meeting, and confirmed the judgment
of .the Monthly Meeting, after he was
laid in his grave!
His mind had been ardently and ac
tively engaged in the dissemination of
peace principles; and in all his trials
he manifested a truly Christian spirit, j
and through all the last summer of his;
life, seemed more and more pleasant'
and resigned, and remarkably so in his
last illness, which was about nine days.
His head was affected with fever at
night, but in the morn he could* rise
and be cheerful with his family, every
day until the last, expressing great en
joyment in the beauties of nature, tak
ing notice of the notes of the birds,and
with remarkable innocent cheerfulness
desiring his family to dwell upon all
the pleasant pictures.
He departed this life on the 13th of
Bth month, 1840, in£h£ 67th year of his
age; and his wife about thrfe
weeks after, leaving a much bereaved
sister and daughter, and many other
friends, to feel the loss of their precious
society.
sth month, 3d, 1848.
EXTRACT
From the Speech of Mr. GIDDIKGS, of Ohio, on the
Ur** luth.n of Mr. I'aLFREY to mature win liter the
Members of C< tigress had bun threatened by a law
lei* mob.
Mr. Giddinos said—Before entering
upon the subject more immediately un
der consideration, I must be permitted
to say, that 1 have no intention to reply
to those personal attacks that for three
days have been made upon me. They
are unbecoming the dignity of a legis
lative body; they are equally unsuited
to the occasion. YVe are discussing
the rights of humanity—a subject dig
nified and solemn. The eyes of the
nation and of the civilized world are
upon us; and, Sir, I cannot demean
myself so much as to reply to those
personal invectives which have been
so liberally heaped upon me.
The subject of slavery, which has
now been before us for some days, was
not introduced by myself nor by any
Northern man. The resolution of my
friend from Massachusetts (Mr. Pal
frey) does not allude to it; yet it has
been forced upon us by slaveholders,
aud Northern men cannot avoid it. 1
regard it as inappropriate, but have no
alternative but to meet it, or admit my
inability to oppose the arguments ad
vanced.
The gentleman (Mr. Haskell, of
Tennessee,) charges roe with uttering
sentiments on this floor, and out of this
House, which have tended **to excite
the slaves to rebellion, and to produce
this state of thing*,” by which, 1 sup
pose he means their attempt to escape
from slavery; for doing this be thinks
I ought to hang as high as Hainan;
and that the House ought to expel me,
for thus daring to give utterance to the
honest sentiments of heart, when
such utterance way excite the slaves
to regain their liberty.
Mr. Speaker, I wiß inform that gen
tleman, with all sincerity, that it is too
late in the day to attempt to sea! the
lips of Northern Representatives in
regard to the slave trade or any other
subject which comes before this body.
I give notice to that gentleman, and to
all others, that I shall speak just what
I think on any and every subject which
comes before us. It is my intention to
call things by their right names, and to
speak, so far as I am able, in such
direct, plain, and simple language, as
to be understood.
It is true, that the freedom of speech
has been put down in this Hall; it was
for years trampled under foot by the
slave power. I aat here daring several
sessions of Congress, in degrading and
humiliating silence, and often listened
to the supercilions tirades of Southern
members against myself, and against
the advocghM of Überiv. while I was
not permitted to reply. The sUv«
Selections.
a
power then reigned triumphant in this
body. Sir, it n well known that, for
asserting in this House some of the
plainest principles of constitutional
law, I was censured and driven from
my seat here. But, thank God, after
years of toil and effort, we have re
gained the freedom of debate. And
3bw, I say to the slaveholders present,
we shall never again surrender it.
When members here shall cease to
Cnjoy the-privilege of speaking their
minds, and representing the views and
wishes ol' their constituents, my people
will send'some other man to Congress,
or they will cease to be represented in
this body. Why, Sir, dots the gentle
man from Tennessee expect that I am
to ask him, or any other member, what
1 shall say, when 1 shall speak, and
how* 1 shall say it? Do Southern gen
tlemen suppose they can bring into this
body the practices which they pursue
on their plantations? Sir, they forget
the theatre on which they are acting.
They forget that they are among free
men. They surely think themselves
among slaves, accustomed to crouch
and tremble ut their frowns. This
Hall is not the place for the display of
supercilious dictation. Such traits ol
character are but poorly suited to the
dignity of legislation. They will not
be tolerated by gentlemen who know
their rights, and have the spirit to
maintain them. What,Sir,are wc to sit
here and listen to such language? 1
would advise the gentleman from Ten
nessee to read the Constitution of the
United States; to study the spirit and
genius of the Government of which he
is a member; to learn the privileges
and duties, and endeavor to catch the
spirit and inspiration of an American
statesman. His thoughts will then be
free as the winds of heaven, and he
will look with ineffable contempt upon
upon all efforts to restrain the freedom
of debate. When the proposition of
the gentleman to restrain the freedom
of debate shall he published in my dis
trict, the schoolboys will laugh at its
absurdity.
But the gentleman thinks that my
language in this Hall has excited a love
of liberty among the slaves. As to;
that, I have made no inquiry. If it
has imparted to them information, or
iaspired them with a desire to regain
the rights which God has given them,
I shalf rejoice at it. I would not desist!
from speaking truth in this Hall, if all
the,slaves in the universe were listen-;
ing to me. No, Sir; if I had the;
power, I would, from this forum, give!
to every slave, south of Mason and
Dixon’s, line, a perfect knowledge of
his rights. 1 would explain to their
understanding the oppression that
weighs down their intellects, and shuts
out truth from their comprehension. I
would explain to them the outrage
which has robbed them of their hu
manity, reduced them to the level of
chattels, and subjects them to sale like
brutes in the market. Could rny voice
be heard by them from this Hall, I
would teach them that they came from
the hand of the same Creator as our
selves, and were endowed by him by
with the same inalienable rights as
those who now lord it over them. I
would inform them that they are breth
ren, and candidates for the same im
mortality with us.
Mr. Gayle, of Alabama, desired to
inquire of the gentleman from Ohio,
(Mr. Giddings,) if these sentiments
were not now uttered in the hearing of
slaves
Mr. Giddings. —The gentleman from
Alabama pc haps could answer that
question more accurately than myself, i
I know not whether such persons be!
present. 1 hope there may be some to
hear me; and if the utterance of such
truths as these can teach them how to
release themselves from bondage, God
knows their redemption draws nigh.
No, Sir; I would say to gentlemen—
-44 Go tell your slaves how choleric you
are, and bid your bondmen tremble,
but come not here and threaten to ex
pel and*to hang the represeatatives of;
freemen for giving utterance to the;
sentiments which they entertain. Gen-j
tlemcn may play the tyrant on their
plantations, bold theif; fellow-men in
subjection, may cause their lacerated
flesh to quiver with the lash, but they!
shall not impose silence upon Northern
men, nor dictate the language we shall
use on this floor.
Mr. Gayle inquired if the gentleman
alluded to him, when he spoke of the;
flesh being made to quiver by the lash.
He never used the lash on his slaves.
They would not accompany him here,!
because they were afraid the abolition-1
ists would skin them.
Mr. Giddings. The gentleman’s
statement shows to what depths of de- j
gradation slavery can reduce the im
mortal mind. The gentleman from
Alabama has been so far successful as
to teach his slave# to hug their chains,
Hid to shudder at the thought of being;
free. He has driven from their minds
the instinctive love of liberty. These
fact* sh«»w the most horrid character
istics of that i station. It blots ©ot
the intellect, and reduces man, created
in the image of his God, to tlie level of]
brutes. That gentleman dare not,
teach bis slaves to read the Word off
God. It would subject him to punish
ment in the Penitentiary of bis State,!
were be to do it. Nor need we go to
Alabama to find such laws. If, Sir, 1
you pass over the river (Potomac) j
lying before our windows, and on ft* j
southern bank attempt to kindle in the!
dormant intellect of n slave the hope j
of a future life, by teaching him to rend
the Holy Scriptures, you will be liable
to an incarceration in the penitentiary
of that Old Dominion, of which we
hear so often and so much in this
House. Yes, Sir, it is regarded a* a
crime to teach a-slave to read the Word
of God, in this Christian land—this
land of sabbaths, and ministers, and
Bibles, and slaves.
Mr. Vexvsle begged to say to the
gentleman from Ohio, that he* was no
Methodist, though he highly respected
that sect. He was a Presbyterian;
but he would refer the gentleman to
the Kpistle of Paul to Philemon, from
which that gentleman would learn, that
Paul did net tell servants to run away
from their masters, but to return back
to them. hen the gentleman from
Ohio can bring evidence to show that
he is better, wiser, and holier than
Paul, he would listen to his counsels,
and not till then.
1 think the gentleman is too much
excited for a Presbyterian. By what
authority does he pronouuce Onesimus
a slave? Was he not a hired servant,
such as we of the North employ, and
pay for their labor? Did Paul direct
I that he should return to slavery? No;
he commanded that he should be re
ceived as a brother. But the gentle
man from North Carolina has attempt
ed to press St. Paul into a justification
of slavery. What is slavery, and
what are its effects? Why, Sir, a
gentleman, (Mr. Clay,) once a mem
ber in the other end of the Capitol and
a slaveholder, of accurate information,
some years since stated, that the aver
age life of slaves, after entering upon
the sugar plantations, was only five
years, and upon the cotton plantations
only seven years. That is to say, they
are driven so hard at labor as to des
troy the lives of the whole of them
every five and seven years upon an
average. Now, Sir, is it not ns much
murder to destroy the life of our lellow
man, by a torture of five or seven
years, as it would be to strike him
down at a blow? Yea, is not this pro
longed torture a refinement in cruelty?
I have no time to refer to the licen
tiousness, or indeed to the almost total
obliteration of moral sentiment, to he
found not only among slaves, but among
ail slaveholding communities.
Why, Sir, it is said, ami I believe
with perfect truth, to be no unusual j
thing for slaveholders to sell their own
children as slaves. Brothers are said
to traffic in the bodies of their fathers,
sons, and daughters. Such crimes
have no names. Yet the gentleman
from North Carolina represents St.
Paul as approving, and even enjoining
slavery, with all its concomitant ini
quities. Well might the great John
Wesley denounce slavery, as the sum
of all villames; for it is so in fact. It
is not merely murder, for it takes life
by a slow and regular process of tor
ture. It is not merely theft, for it
steals not only the property and the
treasures of men, but it takes from them
their intellectual enjoyments. It is
not merely robbery, for it robs man of
himself. The essential elements of all
these crimes, in their most aggravated
form, are comprehended in the term
slavery. And Scripture is quoted to'
justify such appalling wickedness.—
Why, sir, if I entertained such senti
ments, I would abjure my religion, and
turn Pagan These arguments are put
forth by Presbyterians. The general
assembly of that church, some thirty
years since, declared slavery to he
inherently sinful; and of course it
must be offensive to God, and to all
good men.”
SLAYE HOLDING JUSTICE.
The following is an extract from the Edi
torial Correspondence of the Ohio True Demo
crat.
Washington, April 23, 1818.
As an evidence of the manner in
which justice is administered here, I
would state that the three prisoners who
were bound over to appear at court and
answe r to the charge of aiding in the
escape of the negroes, are each requir
ed to give hail in the sum of
This is a country where the Constitu
tion requires that excessive bail shall
not be demanded. One of the men, as
i I have already stated in a previous let
ter, was proved to be innocent on the
i examination. Still he was bound over,
and bail required to the amount ot
£7li,otK). He did think some of apply
ing for a habeas corptu, for the purpose
I ot having the amount reduced by Judge
Cranch. He could give bail in the
surn of soooo. But we were given to
understand that if released, he would
not leave the city alive. The jail is
constantly watched by men who have
nothing to do with it, but who are de
termined that no one of the prisoners
shall ever be acquitted. The jailor has
I strict orders not to permit any one to
have any conversation with them exeept
in his presence—not even their counsel.
The prisoners are confined in cold cells
with brick doors, and nothing to sleep
on except a single blanket. As yet
they have not disclosed the names of
1 any persona who where engaged in the
enterprise with them, and they assured
me that they never would do A.
A part of the negroes are still in jail.
Some of them have not yet been elaim
ed by their masters, and others are
kept there until a good rale cri be
made of them. The question arises—
IBy what authority arc they there The
f jail is the property of the people of the
United States, erected by their money,
for the purpose of receiving and keeping
safe those charged or convicted of
crimes committed in the I Hat net. By
what authority, then, is it used for the
I keeping of the negroes? 'Hie Marshal
j this District is appointed by the
{President; he w paid out of the public
treasury. Js be thus appointed and
paid to be employed iu the capture and
safe-keeping of runaway negroes? Do
the people of the United States pay him
for this purpose? And who pays for
the keeping of these negroes m jad.
t .«»r food, tic.? The Marshal of fbts
WILHAM C. WE1.1.. Fvaitssta
JOITX DICK,
WHOLE NO—22
district has applied to Congress to pay
him the sum d 44, for keeping
runaway .Uvea prior to these, and prob
ably be will soon present another bill for
keeping these. And what i* worse, he
has not only applied, but the Judiciary
Committee has sanctioned the applica
tion, and Mr. Taylor of Ohio, one of
that committee, has reported in favor of
allow ing the claim.
These runaways were not committed
to jail by any order of court; there is
no law requiring the jailor to receive
them; the Marshal volunteered the use
of the jail for this purpose, and now
comes to Congress aud ask* the peo
ple of the United States to pay him for
it, and Mr. W intbrop's Committee on
the Judiciary, report a bill to pav him
for it! One hundred and eighty-three
colored persons were thus committed.
No one of them was charged with any
violation of law. Some were confined
as runaways/’ some for safe-keep
ing,” some as “petitioners for free
dom,” all put in prison by the order of
some private person, and kept until du
eharged by the order of some private
person, except in a very few instances,
where having been kept tor several
months and sometimes for more than a
year, they were discharged by order ot
court. I notice that one poor lellow,
put in jail by order of Moses Graham,
remained there 1,240 days, or three
years and five months, and then was
discharged,by order of F. S. Key; and
for keeping this negro, the Marshal
charges the United States s4*2l 00, and
the Judiciary Committee have reported
in favor of taking this money out of the
pockets of the people, and paying it to
him. Here was a man put in jail by
1 order of a private individual, and kept
there three years and five months, ly
ing upon the cold brick floor. In what
other land would it be tolerated? Had
he committed any crime? Not any.—
He had attempted to escape from sla
very to a land of liberty, and for this
attempt, for three long y ears and a half
lie was shut out from the light of day!
And remember, this was done in the
District of Columbia, where the people
of the United States represented in
Congress have ‘exclusive jurisdiction/
and now they are asked to pay more
than four hundred dollars for this bar
barity; and a committee, a majority of
whom are Northern men, report in fa
vor of the payment! And this is hut
one solitary case out of one hundred
and eighty, in which the Marshal asks
pay.
KIDNAPPING.
We find the following letter relating
the particulars of an atrocious «ct of*
kidnapping in this State, in the Penn
sylvania Freeman. The editor of that
paper states that one of the Kidnappers
was recognized as a slave-hunter trorn
Maryland; and adds'that tfie Jyiends
from Philadelphia followed them to
Baltimore, where they learned that the
girl had been carried to Y'irginia.
Means are in train to recover her if
possible
Downinotown, lyth 4 mo., 1848.
"Mv I)eir Fkicnd’.—Thismorning
our family was aroused by the screams
of a young colored girl who bad been
living with us nearly a year past; hut
we were awakened only in time to seo
her borne olfby three white men, ruf
fians indeed, to a carriage at our door,
and in an instant she whs on her way
to the South. 1 feel so much excited
by the attending circumstances of this
daring and atrocious deed, as scarcely
to be able to give a coherent account
>f it, but 1 know that it is my duty to
make it known, and 1 therefore write
this immediately.
As soon as the house was opened in
the morning, these men, who were lurk
ing without, having a carriage in wait
ing in the street, entered on their hor
rid errand. They encountered no one
in their entrance except a colored boy
who was making the fire; and who be
ing frightened at their approach, ran
and bid himself; taking a lighted can
dle from the kitchen, and carrying it up
stairs, they went directly to the cham
ber where the poor girl lay in a sound
sleep. 'l*hey filled )ier from her bed
aud carried her down stairs. In the
entry of the second floor they met one
of my sisters, who bearing an unusual
noise had sprang from her bed Her
screams, and those of the poor girl,
who was now awakened to the dreadful
truth, amused my father, who hurried
undressed from his chamber on the
ground floor. My father a effort* were
powerless against the three; they threw
him off with frightful imprecations and
hurried the girl to the carriage. Quick
ly as possible my father slat ted in pur
suit, and reached Wert Cheater, only
to !e*i n that the earrings had driten
through the borough at talk speed half
an hour before. They had two horses
their vehicle, and there were three
men besides those in the bouse. These
particulars we gathered from the color
ed boy Ned, who, from his hiding
place, was w atching them in the road.
Can anything be done for the rescue
'•f this girl from her kidnappers? We
ire surprised and alarmed; (his delib
erate iuvasioa of oar house is a thing
imimagifted. There must be some in
former who is acquainted with our
house and its sr range meats, or they
never would have come so boldly
through. Truly there as no need to
preach about slavery in the abstract,
this individual ease combines every
wirkedncsa by which human nature caw
be degraded.
Tiuly thy friend,
MAKY B. THOMAS.
Twenty-four dollars purchased the
whole city and county of New York
ii) years age.
National Convention of the Liberty
League»*
The undersigned committee appointed at Macedon Locks in June last to call a National convention some time in the year 1848 do invite those who wish to provide equal civil securities to the rights of all men to meet in Convention at the City of Rochester on the 31st day of May next, at 10 o’clock A.m. fo the purpose of nominating a candidate for the Vice Presidency, and the transaction of such other business as may come before the convention.Notice - Agreeably to the recommendation of the Liberty Party Convention, held in Auburn, January 12th and 13th 1848 will be in the city of Buffalo on the 14th and 15th days of June, 1848. This convention from the fact that it is expect to nominate candidates for President and Vice President; and to take high and effective ground in behalf of personal liberty, free trade, free soil, exemption from war, and from other violation of the equal rights of all men, will probably attract a large concourse of persons and be of deeply interesting character. State League Convention. A mass convention for the nominate state officers, to be supported by the Liberty League at the ensuing fall election, will be held at Rochester on the second day of June next, at 10 o’clock A.m. Let our friends see to it that the various parts of the state are well represented. F.S. Gilbert, W.D. Barbitt, Wm. R. Smith, Hiram Pitts, A. Pennel Central Coal. of the Liberty League.
Hon rove. Feb. 29th, 1848.
Notice. —Messrs. E. R. Dunlop and S. II.
Day are not agents for the Colored people of
Upper Canada, as is generally suppose*! and
if they have collected money in their name, it
has bacn done on their own responsibility,
and not of the British American Abolition
Society in the city of Toronto. Mr. Dunlop
was dismissed from his agency for .said society,
outlie first day of December, 1817. Mr.
Dunlop was sent out with Mr. Day, fox the
•olft purpose of getting signers to {establish a
paper in the city of Torcmto.
In behalf of the Executive Committee of
tfie 11. A. A. Society,
CHARLES- FREEMAN, See.
April 21, 1+547.
The Prisoners,
A niTliug was held in Boston on flic 25th,
in relation to the recent attempted escape of
the slaves from Washington, and the iinpri
roniueni of thus.? concerned in it. A com
mittee was appointed, and we publish below a
Circular issued by them. We need not com
mend it to the attention of our readers
It is the Citizens of the United States who are the sailors of these men. 
Wr duty that the Constitution confers on
Congress any power to establish, or to main
tain slavery, m territory over which itpossess
es exclusive jurisdiction. This is a most im
portant question, in reference not only to the
District of Columbia, hut to the tcnitoryl
about to be acquired fiom Mexico. We wish f
to bring it before the. Supreme Court, and to
have it presented there, along with some
other closely related questions, liv the very
ablest counsel. To do that, money is needed
and \vc cull on you, friends of liberty, to fur
nish it. Even pirates and murderer** are en
titled to counsel—how much more, guilty
only of an act of humanity, prisoners in the
iuiil.it of a hostile community, surrounded by
enemies thirsting for their blood 1 This call,
we know, will not he iri vain. We suggest
ihe expediency of setting subscript ions on foot
in the principal towns. All remittances to
our Treasurer, J. P. Blanchard, or to .Samuel
E. Sewall, 10 State street, or Francis Jack
son, 27 Stale street, or to any member of the
'ommittee, will be acknowledged through the i
public prints, and the expenditure duly ac-1
counted for. Editors friendly to liberty are
requested to give this a few insertions.
SAMUEL MAY,
SAMUEL G. HOWE,
SAMUEL E. SEWALL,
Kit HARD HILDRETH,
ROBERT MORRIS, Jr.,
FRANCIS JACKSON,
KEIZER WRIGHT,
JOSEPH SOUTH WICK, 1
WALTER HANNING,
J. W. BROWNE,
HENRY 1. DOW DITCH,
WM. F. ('HANNING,
JOSH. P. BLANCHARD,
JAMES M. WHJTON,
CHARLES LIST.
New England Anti-Slavery Con
vention.
The annual meeting of the New England
Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in
Boston, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs
day, May 30th. 21st, and June Ist, to which
nil the friends of immediate and unconditional
emancipation are cordially invited. Not one
of the'long series of meetings held by this
Convention have failed to be of obsorbing
interest, or to give a powerful impetus to the
Anti-Slavery cause. No other anniversary
mooting in the land is so attractive, or charac
terized by such earnestness of spirit and
lioldnegs of expression. Large as lias boon
the attendance hitherto, it is hoped it will this
year greatly exceed all precedent.
Let the friends oi the slave, even far beyond
Ixirders ot New England, pour into the
eilv like an invading army.
Who that can come will he absent Hew
long shall the slaves be kept in their chains 1
How long shall we ourselves crouch undei
the lash of southern slavedrivers How
long shall the present union with human
kidnappers continue 1 Let a more than
French enthusiasm inspire us to assemble
otr force B combine and direct our strength,
and give vigor to our operat ons. Let tins lw
a memorable gathering in the history of th<
republic. We can nnse it so—then u k will
Notice.—lra Grover, formerly of Cuba
Alleghany county N. Y., is desirous o
learning where his brothers, Stephen, Harvy
and Ira, and bis sister, Anna, tuc, if living
and whom ho haj not seen since childhood
Letters addressed U* bun, to the postofSct
here, will be received with ibanka..
St. CJairsville, Apr. 24, }Bl£.
ID’ Buffalo, Cleveland and CohimhiM
pajH-rs would confer a benefit by copying the
a lit/vc.
Nun'*,—Edwin L. Darby, a colored
man, toowtily died in Uuiou Village, New
York, leaving some property. Hie relations,
who are supjxised to be in Michigan, ran
pblain informalio i it tbu Noith Star office.
Sice tin** in the West.
Hr-nr* C. Wrk'ht, the ApiOtle of P««ce,
and CbMnC. Burleigh, thualoqnent
slavery Advocate, will Uokt meetings at the
follow mg pi* 4 at
Putshorgh, Pa. June 15th, 16th 17th
New Hnghum, llhh 20th
I<et»wville Ohio M 22d
Youngstown, 4 24th 25th
New Lyme 27th
PatncsviUe, 291 h
Chagrin Falla, July lit 2d
leveland, 44 4th
Twinsburgh, 44 44 6th
Richfield, 44 44 6th 9th
Akron, 44 44 llth
Ravenna, 44 13th 14th
Randolph, 44 15th lGth
Mam I lon, 44 4 18th
The meetings at New Lyme, Cleveland,
and Akmn, will commence at ten o'clock, A.
M.; the others, on the find day of the meet
ing* at two o'clock, P. M.; subsequent daya
at 10 A. M.
The friends of Anti-Slavery and of Ptsaee
are requested to make all necessary anange
ment* for the meetings, and give aa wide a
notice as fiossible. Now is the time to
agitate.
Person* can avail themselves of thia op
portunity afli»rded by these meetings to pay
j tor the Aiiu-Slavury Standard, to SAJteOc
UkOOKE.
American Anti-Slavery Society.
We regret our inability to gifc a full re
port of the speeches delivered at the annual
meeting. We will endeavor to supply *he
deficiency as far as possible next week.
SrEECH or Mbs. Lccretia Mott.
There is not a m re interesting object for
the contemplation of the philosopher and the
Christian—the lover of man, and the lover ot
God, than the law of progress, —the advance
ment from knowledge to knowledge, from
obedience to obedienoe. The contemplation
of it is beautiful, the investigation of it is ex
ceedingly interesting, as manifested in the his
tory of the world. We find in the earlier
records, the command to advance, 44 to get
thee from thy kindred, from thy father’s house,
and to coine into the land which 1 shall show
thee.” And, again 44 ye have encompassed
this mountain long enough speak to my peo
ple, that they go forward.” In the declara
tion of the Prophets of old, it was men of
clean hands who were to grow stronger and
stronger; it was the righteous who held on
his wav: and in latter times we find the re
commendation of the Apostles to their breth
ren was, 44 to go on unto perfection, not lay
ing again the foundation for repentance from
dead works.” And, indeed, was not the
teaching of Jesus particularly directed to lead
the people onward, 44 Ye have heard that it
was said by them of old time, thou shalt do
thus or so!” then assailed those orders and
institutions which they regarded as sacred
speaking directly in opposition to their alleg-1
ed Heaven ordained law. In contradiction to
this law* of retaliation, he taught them to love
their enemies and to do good to all, embracing
all mankind in the love which he so beautiful
ly inculcated, and so happily exemplified.
In coining down to latter times, this law of
progress is most emphatically marked in our
day, in the great reformatory movements
which have agitated the truth-loving and sin
cere-hearted, engaged in the work of blessing
man. This may not be a fitting occasion to
dwell much upon this topic but there are
those present who can look back to the early
days of the great peace reformation. The
liist efforts were to arrest the progress of of
fensive war; while they claimed to them
selves, in extreme cases, the right of a resort
to self-defence. Hut a reformer now, the Je
sus of the present age, on the Mount Zion of
Peace, says. 44 Ye have heard that it w as i
said by them of old, thou shalt war only in
self-defence, but I say unto you, take not up
the sword at all.” The language is not now
in only prophetic vision, as of old; it does
not, as the current theology has attempted,
explain the prophecies of peace on earth, to
refer to some future, far distant millenium,
but its language now is, sheath the sword;”
44 render good for evil;” little children are
taught to return a 44 kiss for a blow.” Do
we not see the progress that these principles
have made Was there ever a period in
history when nations were so prolific of events
as at the present moment, giving promise of
being consummated by the ultimate realization
of the higher principles of peace on earth,
and good w ill to man,” calling into action the
high moral sentiments of the jieople, and tend
ing to arrest the sword of the destroyer.
Truly, this law of progress is worthy of
our admiration. Look at it in the temperance
reformation: those interested in that cause,
can remember how it was said by them of old
time 44 thou shalt drink wine moderately,
and alistain from the unnecessary use of in
toxicating liquors.” What is the language
now of the Saviour on Mount Zion of Temper
ance 44 1 say unto you drink not wine at all
—practice 4 total abstinence’ from all intoxica
ting liquors.”
And how has it been (let me touch upon it
ever so lightly) with the subject of priestcraft!
It w as said by them of old time, 44 down with
your hierarchies. The Protestant reformers
said, “away with your popery, away with
firiests of that particular church,” and let us
lave in lieu thereof, the Protestant and dis
senting priesthood. What now is the lan
guage of the reformer from among those who
begin to have God for their high priest—Him
self the teacher of his people! 44 Thou shah
judge for thine own self what is right, and
God alone is, and shall be thy teacher.”—
Look at your pulpits; they are widening;
they are not the little, high, narrow, isolated
boxes they were wont to be in olden time
there is room for several, and occasionally a
woman is found to occupy a place there.
(Applause.) Is not this then an evidence of
progress even in the greatest and highest of
Christian principles!
How is it in the Anti-Slavery cause It is
now more than ten years since it was my
privilege—and a great one 1 esteemed it—to
attend an anniversary, of this kind m this city.
1 remember the.tone of the speeches, how that
only the first principles of Anti-Slavery were
brought into view. And, indeed, looking
back to a period shortly before this, when a
little handful gathered in the city of Philadel
phia, and sat m convention, —and what fur!
1 o declare, not merely self-evident truths—to
reiterate the simplest truisms that were ever
uttered. Head the declaration of the Anti-
Slavery Convention of 1833, and see w hat it
was found necessary then to declare in Con
vention. The pt!oplc were asleep on the sub
ject with some few exceptions. There had
l>een solitary individuals, such as Lundy, and
Elias Hicks, aud the Heuezetts, the Clarksons,
aud the Wilberforces. But tire labors in
England for twenty years were simply to ar
rest the progress of the Slave Trade, and it
was the work of a w oman to declare, that
Immediate, not Gradual Abolition” was no
less the duty o r the master, than the right of
the slave. In this Convention in Philadelphia,
the great principles of human freedom were
ultered that every man had a right to his own
body, and that no man had a right to enslave
or iinhrute his brother, or to hold him for a
moment as his property —to put a fi ilow-be
mg on the auction-block, arid sell him to the
highest bidder, nuking the m<«t cruel separa
tions in families. At that uio« these tilings
wer scarcely known the people had scarce
ly considered tliem. It was now made known
to very in the Northern Slates, that
there were then more than two millions held
in lifts abject bondage, who were claimed as
property, that men bad this irresponsible
control, tbs legal nght to their persons.— i
1 ‘Hits ymeulioo resolved what it should do: j
first-—efficiently to organize itself, and then to j
seek to farm other Anti-Slavery Societies]
throughout the country. They were to go
forth and endeavor u» enlist Ihe pulpit aud the
press in behalf of the suffering and the dumb.
The work it had to do w as a Herculean t*k
it tw, to tnret the priests of the Cfn»wb,
fto endeaurr, br bntgiDf Bible texts* °T"
p«e tfom to others, in onler to prmre th»
man had no right to bold lus ftllow-befcg**
tdait. What b* w?ohed from their labors
Look at the law ot progress h» «Ma
trad this appeal of the women of fccouxno i
the women of Aoteriea; (applause
What thev there mf with regard lojfoing to
the Bihlc'to claim abthority for hoWin|nu
man beings in bondage. It
I now to quote the example of the Kaen
i which modern slaveholder* claim tho fig** lo
oppress their fellow-beings, and that to an ex
tent greatly transcending alavehoiduig
eieut Umea.
But time is no longer occupied 1* Aom
tioaiats in meeting the mi Ulster* in Inis y»7j
i The labors of these Sow pwneero have bore
sufficient to awake the nation to the eoamWetw
tioo of this subject, and there is re *l H fce
the hearts of those who bare not been blaafod
by their sectarian prejudices, by
thev have received, or by the boa 1 J"* 8
world which blinds the eyes of them that be
lieve not. These have heard the truth, and
i having received it, gladly have come forward,
and in their inmost heart there is a response
u, tli? truth as it was once uttered by a speak
er of the House of Assembly in Barbados;
i that every man knows in his heart that
slave hold mg is wrong.” It was needed that
some should first come forth thus armed
j give their views to the people and may not
i the pioneer in this cause of immediate aboli
j (ion, (taming towards Mr. Garrison,) who
tiod the wine press alone in the beginning of
this work, say in the language of the Prophet,
with my staff I passed over Jordan, and now
I have become two bands?” Look around
you over the country, and see whether he
spoke in vain, when he declared that he would
be heard. (Great applause.) Observe the
progress in the labors of this reform, that
both the pulpit and the press are enlisted to
some extent in behalf of the suffering and the
dumb. Also, as has been already remarked
in the legislative halta of the land. The Na
tional Assembly is engaged w ith it. Scarce
ly a Legislature in the several States but dis
covers at every move on the great question
of American Slavery, something cheering to
the Abolitiouist. Sven though the slaves are
increasing in numbers, even though their ter
ritory is being enlarged at every circle, yet,
when we look abroad and see what is now be
ing done in other lands, when we see human
freedom engaging the attention of the nations
of the earth, we may take courage; and while
we perceive bow it is assailed in our own land
still we know how impossible it wjll be to
separate it from the question of the freedom
of the slave, in that it is inseparably connect
ed with it in France, and is beginning fo be so
in other countries.
Have we not evidence of progress even in
our own country on this subject A large
Kublic meeting was called the other day to
ail the events of France. Mark the differ
ence in this from former meetings. Why it
was scarcely ten years since Pennsylvania
Hall was burned by a mob, because the liber
ty of the colored man was advocated by white
and colored people intermingled. What are
now the facts with regard to this large meet
ing in the great public square in the same city?
Not only were the movements in regard to
Freedom in the French colonies hailed by the
white people present, but the colored people
also came forward and were helped onward
they had their stand also: and was it confined
to themselves alone No, it was an amalga
mation meeting! (Great applause.) YVas
it by privilege, as women sometimes have the
privelege to hold a kind of play meeting?—
(Laughter.) No, the white people of that
large gathering left their own speakeis, to go
among the colofed crowd, and hear their
speaker.
Look also at the condition of the colored
people in respect to the ridicule which was
heajied upon them. Who are they now who
ridicule us, because colored people arc mingled
in this meeting? It is those whose ridicule
is the scorn of the intelligent and wise of the
nation. (Applause.) Now we find the col
ored people coming forth in intelligence, in
moral worth, with increasing self-respect, and
are respected by their white brethren we see
them stand side by side with those who have
thus cruelly treated, oppressed and trodden
them down.
These, then, are the evidences of progress.
Let the Abolitionist, who should be as the
Jesus of the preseul age on the Mount Zion ot
Freedom, continue to say “Ye have heard
that it was said tiv them of old, thou shall treat
thy slaves kindly, thou shait prepan: them tor
freedom at a future day; but 1 say unto you
bold no slaves at all, proclaim liberty now
throughout the laud to all the inhabitants
thereof.” Let this be the loud sounding ju
bilee that shall be uttered. Let us no longer
be blinded by the dim theology that only in
the tar seeing vision discovers a millemum,
when violence shall no more be heard in the
land—wasting nor destruction in her borders;
but let us behold it now, uigh at the door—
lending faith and confidence to our hopes, as
suring us that even we ourselves shall be in
strumental in proclaiming liberty to the cap
tive. But let there be increasing activity on
the the part of Abolitionists they must not
cease their labors arid ibid their bands, think
ing their work done, because they have effect
ed so much they must not be satisfied with
coming to these anniversary meetings, they
must continue to work at home. It is the
righteous that holds on bis way, it is those
who are faithful ,to the light that obtain more
light; “he that is faithful in a little, shall be
made ruler over more.” But if the light
that is iu you be darkness, how great is that
darkness.” Have we not some apostates in
the cause, who give evidence of the truth of
this Are there not some of whom it may
be said, “it were better they had never known
the way of righteousness, than that they
should have turned from the commandments
delivered unto them.”
Let us go on, then, and make advancement
by our faithfulness. When the pulpit cannot
be enlisted, nor the Church aroused, it is the
duty of Abolitionist* to have no longer any
fellowship with those unfruitful works of
darkness, but rather reprove them, by separa
ting from them, and touching not the unclean
thing. Here is the advanced step the Aboli
tionists have made in the beginnmg of their
w ork many of them w ere enlisted, as some of
them still are, with the political movements of
the land, —the party politics of the nation.—
They lioped by thus uniting with these pow
ers, to effect their work but they have dis
covered that the situation of the country, the
legal euaclmenls, the statutes that the slave
holders have made, have been altogether tend
ing to rivet the chains of the oppressed.—
They have, therefore, found it theu duty to
declare ui the progress they have been called
upon to uuke, that they must obey the com
mand get thee from thy father's house, and
come into a land that I shall show thee.”—
They have fotfhd it their duty to come out
agaiust the Constitution and Government ot
the country, as it is at present const 1 nod. 1
know hole, however, how 10 treat this part of
the subject. lam glad, however, ui the pro
gtess evident in this.
Glad also, of the evidence of advancement
among AbuhtionisU as to the commercial and
manufacturing relations of the country it be
ing made known that these are carried on by
the gain of oppression, while the North, equal
ly with the South, building its houses by 1
unrighteousness, and its churches by wrong, 1
using its neighbor'* service without wages,
and giving four not for fog work.” It t* be
ginning to be seen that they must despise the 1
gain of oppression, and deny themselves the I
blood-boojtnt sweets and the blood stained 1
mutton that has come through this corrupt 1
haoud. They feel that they are called ttp
xi not to be partakers of other men's was, and 1
rot to participate in this mailer, except so for I
t» in the general admixture of things, they 1
ire necessarily involved, wfofo they live in the
♦ountry. The fact that they are also impli
rated in other oppressive sv^tems —by the use 5
>f the product* of human labor, ought not to; 1
lisctiatagr them. The Abol.uonhts hare alsoj 1

those engaged in the varieu* laborious employ
ments In England, Scotland, Ireland.and other
portions of Europe. Tbe axe wes first laid
at the root of the corrupt tree of hwnin sfanfr
ty, »od through this tfijfljw lp* been sn
out ted own dearly tw heboid what are the
universal rights of tnohi None are more rear
dv to assist the oppressed laborer to obtain hie
rights than they. Lei them then be faithful
to their trust, so shall their wroth be Meat, not
only to the poor slave, bat to all there who
are in any way wronged and injured. If they
are not true to their trust, if they are net uni
ted to go on in our work, but suffer themselves
to slumber at their pasta, what wifi be the re
sult Will there not then be reason to fear
that the language of the martyr, Charles Mar
riott, will be fulfilled that America—Re
publican America, will be the last stronghold
of Slavery |in the civilised wotld!” (Ap
plause.)
New Anti-Slavery Newspapers.
The Reformer is published weekly by the
Newark N. J. Anti-Slavery society at one
dollar a year, and is presented to the public,
for the purpose of proposing and expoun
ding the same principles, which were to
control the publication of The Looking
Glam.”
Virginia in the mku>. —An emancipa
tion paper, called the Cbisis, has just made
its appearance at Mandsville, Virginia, edited
by Aaron Berkshire, who defines his posi
tion as follows:
One object, and we may say the main
object we have in presenting the public with
this weekiy visitor, is, Emancipation —a
theme which is now absorbing both the North
and South.”
We do not feel at all ashamed to embark
in this general crusade against the system of
American slavery; as it is a notorious fact,
that many of the no/>lest citizens of the sunny
South, have declared in favor of emancipation,
as the only means of saving the nation from a
premature and disgraceful death. Many,
very many, slaveholders, m Virginia, are in
favor of a well grounded sykem of emancipa
tion, and will labor efficiently for its attain
ment.
The Louisville Examiner tenders the fol
lowing hearty greeting;
Welcome, brother, most welcome!
There are none desiring the removal of sla
very, who will not hail the Crisis with pleas
ure from all who long or labor for Emanci
pation, it will receive a hearty ‘god speed.’
The editor believes the time has come for
action in Western Virginia. Doubtless it is
so. That vast and fertile region needs only the
stimulus of free institutions and froe labor, to
make it one of the most desirable portions of
our land. What section is more healthful
Where is there more water-power In what
portion of any state can we find a larger amount
and variety of mineral resources? Nature
has scattered with liberal hand, and most
profusely, too, every means of wealth, of
power, of sustaining a dense and thriving
population, and nothing but slavery has pre
vented these means from being used long
ago.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, MAY 20, 1849.
Editorial Correspondence.
Since the recent Anniversaries in New
York, I have been occupied in the lecturing
field. The interesting events transpiring at
home and abroad, makes this a most happy
moment for from the platform, the
great principles of justice and human brother
hood against slavery. At no time in the
history of our rightcoo* raovemont, has there
been a better opportunity to instruct and
arouse the people to this subject, than at this
time. A general desire to hear, is every
where manifested. This general tide ought
not to be lost. Abolitionists ought to improve
it, and use it efficiently for the destruction of
slavery, with all its hateful crimes. John P.
Hale is right in saying that the South is
already agitated, and that it is the North that
needs to be stiired.
Giddings, Palfrey, and Hale are stirring
the South most effectually. The recent
speech of the former gentlen an in Congress,
on the resolution inquiring into the facts rela
tive to our disgraceful mob in the District of
Columbia, must have stung, burnt and blis
tered even the callous and obdurate slave
holders in that House. It is truly a noble
sign of the times, when Mr. Giddings can, in
the very teeth of Southern men, pronounce
every man who enslaves his fellow-man a
man-stealer, and hurl defiance at any slave
hohler, or combination of slaveholders, who
may presume to fetter or limit his right of
speech. We look upon this speech as the
noblest ever uttered on the floor of Congress.
Speeches there have been, even during this
session, far above this in point of arrange
ment and rhetoric, but none equalling this in
boldness and power. Every word seems to
come warm from the heart, as free and unre
strained as water from a gushing fountain.—
It reads like the speech of a living man and
it possesses a life-giving power. It was in
vain for the slaveholders to warn him that his
speech might make the slave unhappy in his
chains; that he was speaking within hearing
of the slaves, and that it might lead them to
rebel against their masters. He answered
like a man—a brave man—and said though all
the slaves in the universe should bear* and be
made dissatisfied with their chains, he should
yet speak out the sentiments of his heart on
this subject. 1 warn the slaveholders that this
roan Giddings most be silenced, er the Dis
trict of Columbia will become free. There is
no power on earth that caa support slavery
where this man is allowed to speak as he
has now done, and has promised to persevere
in doing. And yet I hardly know how to ad
vise them to stop him. It will not do to cen
sure him. He will make it the occasion of
setting the whole country in a blase of free
dom with the power of his defence. It wifi
not do to expel him; —he wifi then go home;
but only to return with new strength, and
with s fresh baptism of anti-slavery fire. Nor
wifi it do to kill him —be would slay move
by bis death than by his life. I confess to
my Southern friends, that I know not how to
xdtiae them in their present unhappy predica
ment. They are evidently in a bad fix,”
and upon them devolves the responsibility of
getting out iff it. Meanwhile, I congratulate
the slave. Poor toil-worn and plundered
bondmen, UR op your hearts!—the heel of
the tyrant cannot much longer rest op your
bearing bosom*) your deliverance diawetk
nigh.
I meant to have said more about the anni
versaries in tho feet number, but was pres
vented by my numerous public engagements,
I wish at thi* time to call e*pcci#lMea»»onlo

on resolution adopted by the American Anti
Slavery Societj. It ia this:
Itaolved, Thai Slavrholden», m sfch,cai
have no rights. They hare no rightful exist
mar on autli; tber were never created b;
God; they emstittte no port of thw bulnai
roar ihqr are of monstrous and mabolica
«%io nod, therefore, no law, an ooosutu
tiim, no compact, no religion, that endorse
their humanity, is to be obeyed or tolerated.
At the firm, this startling resolution strud
me unfavorably. The great truth it contained
and was designed to express, I thought to h
obscured by the ambiguity of its language.—
Maturer reflection on the subject has not oub
removed this obstacle in the way of my adopt
ing it, but has led me to the eondosion that i
is ooe of the dearest, important and time!)
words to which anti-slavery ever gareuttet
aiice. It dearly defines the position of tin
slaveholder, as a being that his forfeited al
rights, by annihilating all the rights of other*
They*have no rightful existence on earth.’
Startling as this proposition may seem, it i
but the reiteration of God— “Whoso atealel]
a man and selleth him, or if be be found u
his band, be shall be surely put to death.”--
They were never created by God.’* Thi
is simply saying that they are unknown ii
the creation of God. He made made man
but never a man-stealer. The next affirma
tion is, that they are of monstrous and diabol
ica! origin. That is to say, that they are, ii
the language of Jesus, Of their father, th<
Devil.” The conclusion from these premise!
is irresistible. No law, constitution, com
pact, or religion that endorses their humanity
ought to be obeyed or tolerated.
These propositions I regard as most im
portant to be urged just now upon the peoph
of the whole country. While the iron-heartec
and brass-browed Calhoun, with his train o
merciless man-stealers,, are with the utmos
audacity standing up in the American Senate
and talking of the rights of slaveholders, and
there is in the North an everlasting prating
about the rights of our Southern brethren,”
it is meet that the American Anti-Slavery
Society should confront them all with the bold
and startling denial contained in this resol u
rion. It is the right word for the times, ll
puts into language and force a truth which
has lain dormant in the souls of many. God
made man with two hands, two feet, and a
head, and no more, and he who claims and
possesses any more than these, is devil-made,
and is a monster, unknown to any law of
God or nature, and constitute no part of the
human family. They have forfeited all light
to be numbered with that great family. He
is an outrage upon all law, human and divine.
The laws, if we must call them such, that
sustain him are monstrous and infernal; and
the religion that sustains him, equally so. It
is important to keep this point before the
whole country, and especially before Southern
statesmen. Calhoun and Foote, Bagby and
Davis, should know that they are rapidly
coming to be regarded and treated as man
stealers—children of the devil.
I have no doubt that the resolution will meet
with opposition, even in some quarters of the
anti-slavery ranks but we only ask a calm
consideration for it, and I hrfve no fears for the
result. However much we may fail to see
the truth it contains, the slaveholder will see
and feel it, on the first examination. Let it
be discussed in every anti-slavery meeting,
and adopted, and good will surely come
of it.
Among the numerous excellent resolutions
adopted by the Annual meeting, was one
one setting forth the right of slaves to escape,
and affirming the duty of abolitionists to help
them, and sanctioning the noble Sayres and
Drayton in the act of aiding the seventy-seven
slaves who attempted to escape from slavery
in the District of Columbia.
These men have been stigmatised before
the world as thieves—robbers—pirates—
manstealers.” Th 3 American Anti-Slavery
Society comes nobly up; assumes voluntarily
all the odium attaching to the act that has
caused them to be stigmatized by those foul
names, deeming such reproach to be the
highest honor that can be conferred upon
them. All these names have their right
owners, who shall one day have all the honor
or disgrace that attaches to them. The man
who robs upon the high seas, who gives his
victim a chance to fight for bis life and pro
perty, is a spotless saint, compared with the
mean and cowardly villain who wiQ take the
babe newly stamped with divinity, in a state
of helpless innocence, and doom it to the
chains of slavery. Such is every slaveholder
in the United States.
During the past week, I have visited New
London, Connecticut, and have given four
lectures there. The first meeting was but
thinly attended, and yet I was assured, that
no lecturer on slavery ever called out a larger
and more respectable audience in that j laee.
It is by no means a grateful task to abolition
ize Connecticut. As a State, it will probably
be the last to be reformed. It* piety has
eaten oat its humanity. The people seem to
think themselves about as good as they can
be, and that it would be sinful for them to try
to be any bettor than they now are. Slavery,
in their estimation, is a sin which it is un
righteous to preach against. This, of course,
is a general statement of the case. There
are noble exceptions to this rule. There are
good men and women in this State and in
New London; but as as a mass, this repre
sentation accords with their character. It is
absolutely bfoodehilling to witness the indif
ference with which the people listen to the
thrilling wrongs of the slave, and hear their
own crimes and inconsistencies exposed.
You look in Tain for emotion. No tear of
pity at the tale of woe; no look of surprise,
mortification, or shame, at the enormities re
vealed no manly indignation is evinced al
the recital of dastardly deeds; but all is calm
and still, as though they were hearing a
lecture on geology. The two last meetings
in New London were an exception to this
description. The audiences manifested a
deeper interest in the subject, than I had!
hitherto seen in any part of Connecticut.
I think New London about the beat part in
the State. It borders on Rhode Island, and
may bo indebted to that feet for its superiority.
Rhode Island has given the right of suffrage
to her colored citizens; Connecticut has
denied that right; and has shows herself, in
many other respects ttiforinT in hex lost pious
Besides, New London, 1 hare lectured m
Coventry, East Greenwich, Apponaug, sod
Providence. The meeting* in this State
have been vary satisfactory. A general in
trie* km been rivaled, tod a goodly numbe
of subscribers to the North Star obtained
I shall win East in order to attend th
Hew England Convention; and shall the
fa immndiitnly to my pool at Rochester.
F. D.

r* Cmcixxati, May" 7, 1818.
Dm Dovounl arrived here on thi
day week, and hare held four meetings on a
many different evenings, in two of th
churches, all of which meetings have bee
attended b/ crowds of anxious listeners.
To-morrow evening, I hold a meeting in th
Fifth-Street Congregational Church, (funnel
ly Rev. Mr. Blanchard'a,h and Lbave meeting
appointed hr every night this week excep
Saturday. There is certainly more work ii
the Weet than one man can possibly attend to
and I believe were Rcmond to join me a
some given point, and we travel together
that the enterprise would be fully justifiabk
on both sides. The harvest in the West v
truly ready, but the laborers are few. Wher
ever oar principles are fully made known, they
meet with many who readily subscribe tc
them practical anti-slavery being that wftief
the people desire, and at once see the fore*
of. An agent of the Society is 'here tort
much needed, and I not being one, have nc
power to act for it, my principal business be
ing for the North Star. But there U scarcely
a place where I stop and hold one meeting
but there are loud calls to hold successivi
meetings, so eager are the people for th«
spread of anti-slavery truths. Tliere is ont
favorable sign of the times—the colored peo
ple are beginning to receive the moral sua
sion doctrine with much more favor thar
formerly.
They have learned that opr war is noi
against their rights, but against America!
slavery, and in favor of universal liberty am!
that while we readily concede the right tc
vote, even without disputing or quarrelling
with our brethren, either colored or white,
upon that point as such/ that we will indis
criminatingly strike down all and everything
that may come in the way of emancipation
and the elevation of our race, be it politics, 01
false religion, oterch or State Government;
they are at once satisfied, and willing to hold
up our hands, bidding us God-speed in oui
laudable though arduous undertaking. I find
the females everywhere most readily subscribe
to our doctrine, and I can only account for this
from *the fact that they themselves are gen
erally oppressed and deprived of their rights
by the despotic acts of legislation and false
judicature.
Tuesday, 9th.—l held a meeting last eve
ning in Rev. Mr .Boyington’sChurch,on Sixth
street. The house was filled with ihe most
intelligent of both sexes and classes—l mean
white and colored. On this evening I wa*
quite unwell, and did not feel able to do jus
tice to my subject, though, being before a
new audience, I made no apology. They sal
with the greatest attention for one hour, the
people showing evidence of a desire for my
continuance when I ceased but having been
promised the church for two evenings, I made
my discourso as short as possible on that oc
casion but found that I had been mistaken in
my calculation about the church, tbo trustees
—the rulers of the people —disliking the posi
tions taken in my lecture, would not give their
consent for the holding of another meeting
there. This is a fair representation of the
anti-slavery senjiment in this community
among our white fellow-citizens. So long as
we are conservative and time-serving, we may
get their churches, bot a declaration of truth,
through the channel of liberal sentiments, is
certain to meet with religious execration.
This is the same church in which Rcmond
lectured when here some yeats ago, hut at
that time it was und Jt the pastoral charge of
Rev. Mr. Blanchard, who himself being of
liberal sentiments and uncompromising in his
coarse, wielded an influence in the church,
even among the trustees, that may not now
be expected. Then the salvation of the
church depended upon Mr. Blanchard now,
it is fully established, and independent of its
clergyman, though I know not how he felt
towards the course pursue in the lecture.
Wednesday evening the 10th, I lectured in
the True Wesleyan Church. The house was
full, and we had, as has been the eare with
all the meetings I have held here, an agreea
ble meeting, so far as the people, who some
evidently eager and anxious to hear, are con
cerned. I hold another meeting on Friday
evening, in Sixth st. Methodist Church.
The people here manifest great desire to
bear testimony to anti-slavery truths; snd
tliere is nothing which prevents them from
bearing but the closing of the'churebes against
them. It is true that there are many large
and commodious public balls in the eity, but
to obtain one of these would be attended with
an expense of from ten to twenty-five dollars
a night, an expense which we would not be
justifiable in incurring. This the churches
know; hence the power they wield in the
irroscTiptive position they assume.
There is quite s Urge population of colored
residents in Ciaeumati, I suppose about 5,000.
Among them there are many families of
wealth and among the young people in par
ticular, there is much intelligence. There
are several young men here who have talents
of the very highest order, oratory and poetry
being familiar themes in their literary course,
and many young women who would be an
ornament to any society. The intelligence of
the more youthful of the children, is particu
larly attractive, many of them giving the
premise of an intellect which, if properly
cultivated, may beam forth in future with
brilliancy. The young men and women
guneeally, who are the most intelligent aad
the best qualified, are mainly indebted for
their qualifications to their own exertions.—
This is highly praiseworthy, and eommends
itself to every lover of the human family.—
StiD, the young people, as such, especially
the young men, have not in general come up
to that standard of doty which the three
millions of American slaves, and six hundred
tb- msand nominally free colored people of the
mtft-alaveboldiag States, so loudly call for and
imperatively demand.
TUa young people, I have said, do not keep
V*** with the spirit of the age, though thaw
ranch to commend among them. The aged
gimeraOy am the capitalists, hot not haring
had in their youth th? advantages of
tom, cannot make such investment, and eatet
into such enterprises with their money, as are
necessary fbi the advancement of society.—
i bis, of coarse, it Um legitimate bufinme,
r and expected of their sons and daughters.
i Now if their children manifest no such ir*cli
-5 j nation, but, on the contrary, appear indiff. rent
to the import and insensible of the advantages
to bo derived from such a course of domestic
enterprioe, it is apparent that there is much
cause for censure or reproof.
Some years ago, there were many young
s men and women, who possessed a fine capital,
8 some of whom being the children of Bonth-
P enters, who, moved by the impulses of na
n tore, brought them to this city, bought pro
perty for them, schooled them, ami gave
e ample means for a respectable Lrehhood. If
b those young men and women who, havutg
5 the qualifications and means, had invested
x their capital and embarked in different fnisi
ness, Mich as confectionaries, variety shop?,
shoe stores, dry goods, and fancy millinery
t establishments, all of which are among the
staple business of this place, and which many
of the young men and women could hate
admirably succecdeti in which, 1 am sorry to
say, they did not do, but rather wore disposed
to live at ease, upon what they hail, forgetting
the maxim, that always taking out of the
meal-tub, and putting nothiog in, will soon
come to the bottom.”—Much might have been
done by the young people of this city, morn
than what has been.
Anti-slavery is but a beggarly element io
this region, and, save a few exceptions, in
which our friends of the Herald are included.
an eastern autir&lavery man might well sup
pose himself to be in Kentucky. Of course,
in this I except the colored residents, who,
while they are all anti-slavery, have
not, as yet, given the subject, aside from
its political aspects, any er much thought. 1
am pleased to see U»e readiness with which
the greater part admit the truthfulness of our
position, and subscribe to many of our views;
i 1 and w’hilc many believe in the ballot-box as
onoof the uwst effectual means of attaining
the great end sought—the overthrow of the in
fernal system of American slavery yet they
do not hesitate to acknowledge that moral
suasion is accomplishing, practically, what it
j will take ages for politics to do—-that is, social
equality. It is a fact well worthy of remark,
that one of the most intelligent colored gen
j tlemen observed to me, that the anti-slavery
j people of Cincinnati and the colored people,
have no intercourse nor acquaintance, only
being hnought together on great or extraordi
nary occasions, such as- great meetings, con
ventions, lectures, &c., when the colored peo
ple take no part among the whites, they doing
the whole business, the; colored looking on mi
silence. This truth is verified by the firrt,
that it is with the utmost difficulty that you
can find a colored lady or gentlemen in this
city who feel themselves at liberty to intro
duce you to an abolitionist. They stand oiF
from them with as much deferential awe as
Charles to his lord and master, the great
einlioJimint.” I administer this rebuke to
the respectable colored residents of this eitv,
I because I am acquainted with tlum, and love
them and their worth 100 much to see them
thus duped or imposed upou by the mock anti
slavery of Cincinnati.
\ou will be pleased tojearn that I ha v o
met with Mary K. Miles, late of Boston, the
amiable and untiring fpend of the slave and
I humanity, who caine to this city some six
months since, to assist irr the High Nohool of
r Hiram Gilmore, and thus more effi*et
ually coi|trib«te I to the promotion of her op
pressed race in this land of liberty, Bibles,
whips, thumVscrews, human yokes, hand
cuffs, and chains.
The colored citizens here take great inter
est in the North Star, and are doing a good
deal for it, and promise much Tine is fore
boding of good, but arises altogether from the
confidence they have in the continuance of the
paper. In this they are right, as they have
been so frequently deceived by papers in their
own State corning up and as speedily going
down, that now they are determined first to
“be sure they are right, then go ahead.”
I here were none contributed more to the
interest of the paper here, by getting sub
scribers, than Miss Miles and Miss Caroline
Brooks, who is also a colored lady, and one
of the most amiable and boat of persons. To
these ladies much is due for their untiring
efforts. Many gentlemen am I indebted to,
but as these are numerous, and everwyhcrc
lend a liberal aid, I do not design to name
them in this connection.
I intend visiting the Colored Orphans’ Asy
lum, High School and other schools, Boyd 's
Cabinet establishment, when, in my next, 1
shall give you an account of the property or
real-estate holders, and business, among the
colored residents in this city.
There is now here a Rev. Mr. King, for
merly of Scotland, who fell heir to several
slaves, men, women and children, and who
determined on settling them in Canada on land
of their own, and has arrived thus far on his
way, in company with them, and has held
aeveral meetings in the famous Dr. Rice s
church. Being constantly engaged, I have
not had time to hear him or to see lus people,
which 1 design doing if possible.
The Ohio river is very high just now, and
commerce brisk.
Yoont, for God and Humanity,
til. R. D.
Preparations for the f’iist of Augnst*
A large meeting was held on Mouday eve
ning, the 23d, in this city, to devise ways and
•weans for an appropriate observance of that
auspicious ereot which conferred the boon of
freedom to 800,000 human beings in the
British West Indies. From the enthusiasm
manifested, it may b« hoped that the eel<s
brahoo will exceed any of former years
All the friends of humanity, will be cordially
invited to participate.
Due notice will be given through the col
o»na of the North Starassooda* arrange
ments are eoaenm axled.
M. R. DcLanr.— We peraeive, from the
CiMuuii paper*. ,b« M B Utr
tame are exerting much discussion u, that
euy- We have net roomjthis week for an ex
tended notice, but wtU probably in a future
onmhnt maU a few selection,.
The New York evangelist and Garrisonianism
To distinguish between thing* that differ w
hr no means an easy task for tome mind*.
From the time when Demetrius, who made
mlver shrine* for the goddess Diana,sad raised
the cry in Kphesua, Great is Diana of the
Ki*hemans!” down to tha present day, iwtar
ested parties hare always hem the first and
the roost bitter enemies of all new opinions.
The mantle of the silversmith has descended
through generation after generation of infam
ous priests and persecuting bigots—of Popish
inquisitions, Star Chambers, and burning* at
Smithfidd—of cruel and tyrannical bishop
Ijauds, and Bonnets, and Judge Jeffiries; sod
it now hangs, with what grace it may,
in its present Uttered and worn-out cuoditioo,
on the shoulders of such enemies of progress
and reform, as the Reverend Doctor Cox and
the New York Evangelist. All these have
imagined, or would have the world believe
that they imagined, that truth was with them
alone, and that all the rest of mankind were
sunk in the deepest »'rror —travelling to des
truction headlong. Humility unparalleled!
Poor simple-minded men, how grievously
they have been mistaken! Their creed,
such as it baa been—such as it is, was not—
is not one hair’s-breadth nearer the truth, in
consequence of their belief in it. Bishops
Laud and Bonner, and colleagues, of the past
and the present day, have not been able, with
all their efforts, open and insidious, to stay
the spread of heresy. It has been an oft
repeated, but up to this time, badly under
stood doctrine, that it is utteily impossible to
prevent the ultimate overthrow of error, and
the ultimate triumph of truth. So that all
the supporters of error may still say, in the
spirit, and soma of them with the motive of
the licforcmeniioned Demetrius, the temple
of the great goddess Diana, is in danger.”,
Great is Diana of the Ephesians!” The
craft, probably, being uppermost in their
minds, while making the assertion.
The Editor of the New York Evangelist
of last week, in the fulness of his candor and
generosity, takes advantage of the publication
of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society’s
Report, to have a fling at what he is pleased
to cal! Garrisonianism.” lie says, after
quoting some garbled .statements of receipts
and expenditure—
These items show how rapidly that party
is waning and also show where the respon
sibility is of keeping up ihe whole system of
disorganizing agitations, of which it is the;
centre. It rests uj*on those who support the
great annual fair at Fancuil Hall. Take that
away, and it must die for want of food.”
The New York Evangelist, notwithstand
ing this ebullition of hate against “disorgan
izing agitations,” knows, as every one else
knows, that the Anti-Slavery cause was
never more hopeful, or exhibited more vigor
ous signs of vitality, than at the present
time. He may, if he please, lay the flat
tering unction to his toul,” that some such
cause as that of which he speaks, will stay
the efforts of disorganizing agitators,” and
thus save hypocritical professions of zeal for
the cause of religion and humanity, from
merited ex [insure and reproof; in that, how
ever, lie is most eggrcgiously mistaken. Their
task is an arduous one, requiring no ordinary
degree of courage and resolution; hut they
will persevere to the end, undaunted by diffi
culty, undismayed by danger, oklopiy, or
opjMisition.
The New York Evangelist says further—
1 do not pretend to divine all the motives
by which the wealthy and conservative citi
zens of Boston are induced to extend so
liberal a patronage to these fair*. Perhaps
many do it through inadvertence—they feel a
little interest in the Anti-Slavery cause, they
wish to do a little for it, and to do that little
without having their names published and
so they go to the fair, as if that was helping
the slave. Many, doubtless, uphold the fair
tor political reasons, because the party ex
pend their chief bitterness against those who
wish to cairy their Anti-Slavery principles
thoroughly into politics. And I believe that
others feel an interest in the fair, as a means
of weakening the influence of religious insti
tutions among us.”
Do not pretend to divine the motiv’s.”
You had much better not; it w ill be a mere
waste of time for you to make the attempt.
Pray, can you ever divine the motives which
lead any one to the performance of a praise
worthy act Why, then, do you go on to d<i
exactly what you say you will not do! You
make here three attempts to divine the
motives which lead the citizens of Boston t(
extend so liberal a patronage to these fairs.’
But your divination is of the meanest am
most unsatisfactory order. Your object ap
parently being to get as far from the truth at
possible, each attempt is of coutse more ab
surd and ludicrous —more indecently falsi
and irrational, than the preceding. Througl
inadvertence, not wishing to have their namci
published.” One supposition is as good ai
another, where all supposition is invalidates
by fact. That oue should go to a fair througl
'‘inadvertence” is sufficiently strange ant
unaccountable hut how, or on what principli
of why and because, he should go there, if
order that his name should not be publish
ed,” is a problem at the solution of whicli
even F.uclid would stand aghast. This is t
new discovery in the science of optics—Thai
which is most visible is least seen. Al
honor to the discoverer When oue wisha
to avoid observation, he must go where then
are many of his friends and acquaintances
Probably this Editor, when he is desirous o
moments of quiet and seclusion, hides himsel
in the centre of Broadway. They don’t wan
to have thetr names published, and so the]
go to the fair Names are generally un
di-rstood to be only the representatives o
things. People don’t set a very high valu
on the shadow, when they can get the sub
stance. When they have the mao himself
they duii't concern themselves much about hi
nairn*. The common sense mode of judgin;
about these citizens of Boston would be
either that they went there without any ul
tenor motive, or because they approve of tb
object; and “so they go to the fair.” Bo
there are many who go to the fair for pojiti
cal reasons.” What these political reason
are, and buW they operate, it is difficult t<
divine. Better a bad reason than none—or
according to the Irish rendering of the pro
verb, Better bad luck, than no luck at all.'
Tt»c editor must certainly have had this idot
in lus head, when he found Uus motive fu
going to the fair. 44 Because,” says he
the party expend their chief bitlcrnesi
against tli<«** who wish to carry their Anti
Misery principles thoroughly into practice.'
San Weller could set through a brick wall
ant a deal door, and the wiadinga of the
staircase, with the help of a douWe-magmfy
lof aucieecope, j»e aboot as well as another.
Bo can the editor of the New York Evan
gelist. Fax fowls hare fair fcathera and
far-fetched reasons are of count fair on a like
account. Words would he wasted oa aweh
There is still another attempt of this writer
who does not pretend to diriae motives,”
to daseorer why the rsapectsbls cttraees of
Bootso go to the fair;*’ and he had naeh
better bare come to this at none, aa in it all
the fist of his argument and aO the malice of
his spleen are cooerotratod: it is—“ the fhir
a meaoa of weakening the influence of reli
gious institutions among us.” In the lan
guage of the Ephesian Demetrius, religious
institutions meant, the great goddess Diana
and her silver shrines; in tbs language of
persecuting popes, cardinals and bishops, it
has king been understood to mean, bigotry,
superstition, intolerance, priestcraft, and the
wealth, and power, and influence which their
position as popes, and cardinals, and bishops,
conferred upon them. In the language of the
New York Evangelist, mar not religious
institutions'’ be understood to mean some
thing analogous to these There is standing
in society at stake; there is orthodoxy at
stake; and the hypocritical professions of
superior sanctity and seal for religion, are in
danger of being made manifest; for Gar
rison and his colleagues,” under the influence
of “considerations of truth, justice, and
decency,” will not suffer your hollow mock
cry—your pretended sympathy with suffering
humanity, to stalk on uiiblushiugly and with
out exposure.
Verily, this entire effusion is a pitiful con
glomeration, both melancholy and ridiculous.
It reminds one altogether too forcibly of
FalstafTs estimate of hi* ragged regiment—
Food for powder—food for powder! They
will stop a shot as well as the best.”— j. d.
The Bright Side.
It is cheering to the traveller, as he trudges
along the road, to be reminded by consecutive
landmarks, that he is gradually making pto
gress in the right direction, although the end
of his journey may still be far distant. It is
cheering to the sailor, as he navigates the vast
and trackless ocean, to fiud that his longitude
daily increases, and that he may reasonably
expect in due season to reach the desired
haven. It is clieering to the man who has an
object in view, and is laboring to accomplish
that object, to learn, from incontrovertible
signs, that his labors are not in vain; and
even a very small gleam of light and encou
ragement will sene to illumine his path, and
send him on his way rejoicing. The friends
of humanity and of the slave, must rejoice in
every indication, however faint, that seems to
l>oint m the direction of freedom and justice.
Tne following is one of these indications,
taken from the New York Evening Post. It
is an extract from a letter of a Southern cor
respondent. Would that the signs of pro
gress, of which the writer makes mention,
were more decided and unequivocal! But
we must be thankful for such favors as we
can get from that quarter.
Within the last three years—within the
last year, indeed—a most remarkable change
has spread over, or rather under, the South,
on the subject of slavery. I know several
men high in office in slave States, who openly
condemn the system of slavery—some such
are members of legislatures, others hold high
ap|H»intinents of a judicial character. The
tremendous moral force of progress elsewhere,
has, among other tilings, led to this. The
Washington Era and the Louisville Examiner
have numerous readers in these States. Why,
tlie in.*rc fact that Southerners suliscribe for
such prints, call for them at the post office,
and have them lying open on their tables, is
a long stride over the prejudices of a few
seasons since. Nor is the tune distant, when
a powerful force in the Southern local press,
will turn the logic and speculation at its com
mand, to discussions of the best means for
removing the evil of slavery, the time being
past to discuss the point whether it be an evil,
and one which every consideiatkm of profit,
I as well as right, impels the American people
to prevent spreading any more. There are
several papers at the South, which are even
i now on the eve of taking this stand, papers
i which see nothing to dread in that terrible
1 Wilmot Proviso. That capital will be sought
for, out of abusing such a course by base and
pandering politicians, is very likely at first.
But though the first plunge of a cold bath
makes one wince, the effect is none the less
salutary; and thus it will be with those of
the Southern editors, who form what you will
see—the vanguard of Anti-Slavery in the
South itself.
Among the difficulties you radicals at the
North may have to annoy you, let the least
of your thoughts be giveu to any obstacles
from the pt opk of the South for such ob
stacles you will never see. Thousands ol
hearts imbued with freedom and patriotism,
watch you from the slave States, with earnest
prayers for your success in putting a bar tc
the territories w here human bondage is esta
blished by law. Thousands will hail youi
j triumph as the triumph of the real interests
jof the future generations of the South. Foi
years the sons of Virginia, the Carolinas,
and other slave States, have seen themselves
outstripped in wealth, power, and enterprise,
j by the north and now see the same supe*
riority increasing at the west. They know
the reason. They will soon begin to think ol
applying the remedy.”
It is exceedingly difficult to plioe muck
confidence in these prediction*. Still thej
point to the fact, which will not now be die
puted, that the freemen of the South art
beginning to discover that Slavery has beer
working against their interests; and tha
they can never compete with the North ir
r wealth, power, or enterprise,” until the lax
vestige of the blighting curse is rooted ou
for ever.—J. d.
j
i Nam aulc Wjrx.—A blacksmith, name*!
Osborn, offered himself as bail at the N- Y
Court of Setoßoon, for a prisoner whose trial
’was put off to (be next term. “Are yot
surely worth $5OO above all your debts?” in
quired the Recorder. Why, sir, I bold mi
wife be worth $4OO at least, without count-
J property.” The court is satisfied; take
his hail,” replied the Recorder.

t ID* There arc two things wlieht ought
to teach US to think but meanly of humaa
glory—the very best bare had their calmanl
a tors, and the very wont their panegyrists.
Havti,—The New Orleans papers haw
t just issued wbat purports to be late news frum
l’ort-au-Ptince, Revolution and bloodshed
appears to he the older of the day; hat so
much exaggeration generally characterises
Hay turn news, vis. New Orleans, that we
must watt for definite intelligence.
Ttf.
Some men then an who are ever despond
ing and fearful. They an always ananpat
tag failure sad to make finhnre certain, they
never tot to sweeesd. A eaamdetmhle per*
tioa of this itirfarMaataiu to effort nan be
•ttrifcwled la indoleaee; they fear work.
Better by fer at kto few any the merest
spectre of the imagination, lima this. No
man who is afraid of work ever achieved
anything good, or great, or osefrd. No
thing that is worth doing can be accom
plished without labor. There is ao royal
lead to anything else, aay man thaa to learn
ing. Jupiter betpe the cart sat of the nit,
wbea the driver puts has shoulder is the
wheel. Alexander would sot have conquered
the OM Wotld, eor Columbus discovered the
New, nor America freed herself from Eng*
lish tyranny, nor—to descend to much meaner
men and doings —would President Polk, with
the help of Gen. Taylor and others, hare
conquered Mexico, if he had not tbieo.
I sat at the base of a lofty mosntain,
wondering if it were possible ever to reach
the summit. Gloomy, overhanging preci
pices ate to be seen all along its sides. Here,
it appears rough, ragged, insurmountable;
there, yawning gulfs seem ready to receive
and swallow up the adventurous traveller.
Shall I try to aacend, or shall I remain at the
foot? First, let roe answer this question—ls
any gain to be secured by venturing up
the rugged sides of that lofty mountain
Will the wide extended prospect, and the
beautiful scenery, and the excitement of the
enterprise, afford a sufficient compensa
tion for my labor? I answer, Yes. Then
arise and walk.—Trt! —lf it is worth
doing, try whether it can be done. No
thing fa exactly what at a distance it seems
to be. On a nearer approach, the precipices
become surmountable, and the yawming gulls
lose their terrors; and the distance from the
summit lessens—lessens —lessens at every
step! Courage, faint heart! Let Never
despair” be your motto, and a strong will
your helper, and great indeed must be the diffi
culties and vast the obstacles that yon will
not surmount.
More frequently among colored young men
is this deficiency of energy to be found.
They have been so long accustomed to hear
themselves called inferior to the whites, that
they have almost learned to believe there is
truth in the assertion. There may be a kind
of inferiority—-it is nothing- to the purpose
whether there is or not; but none even of the
most talented, whether black, or white, or
red, or any other shade of color whatever,
can afford to waste his lime in idle indiffer
ence or in hopeless listlessness. He cannot
do any good either to himself or to any one
else thus; but he may be able to accomplish
much—everything, if he will but put forth
his energies, and call into requisition the
little word Try. Try helped Homer to
write his Iliad—Shakespeare to write his
plays—Milton to write his Paradise Lost.
Try is the highway to knowledge—to res
-1 pectability—to influence. Try is the first
step up the side of Mount Parnassus the
first conquest over science—art—literature.
1 It was Thy that first guided Raphaels pen
cil—that first directed Chantrey's chisel—
that first wielded i3acon*s pen. Let not one
failure discourage.— Try again. Let not
many failures discourage. Try again.
Never cease to try, till you cease to live
and if you do not accomplish all that you
desire, you will at least accomplish much
more than if yon had never tried at all. Do
you wish to be learned—to be intelligent—
to be useful—to be respected You may be
all.these, if you will but TRY\ —j. d.
(Communications.
Denmark, 30th of 4tti month,lB4B.
Friend W. C. Nell :—The Star answers
ray expectations. I feel a deep interest in the
anti-slavery enterprise, and I shall cheerfully
aid in sustaining the paper as long as it con
tinues to breathe the spirit of liberty and
truth. I have long wished to see our colored
friends laboring in the great field of truth and
reform. I hope the North Star will live until
the bonds of slavery are all broken and all our
colored people will feel it to be a truth.
I rejoice to see great nations coming for
ward with their declarations of freedom to the
slave! The wide spread influence of abolition
principles among all nations, is ominous of
good to the poor in bonds. We have nothing
at present to discourage us, as a mysterious
providence is at work for the oppressed in all
lands. 1 would say, to all of the down-trod
den look up and lift your heads, for your
redemption draweth near."
The religious world (so far as the United
States are concerned,) are behind the legisla
tive bodies among the- nations, in acting the
part of the good Samaritan. The profound
silence hi all professed gospel churches, on
the great reforms of the day, and in a special
manner the abolition reform, shows how deep
the sin of slavery has been stamped in the sc
called church.
1 would say to the poor, depressed,crushed,
down-trodden slave, As God looked down on
the oppression of his people in ancient Egypt,
so he looks on the slavery of this nation and
their cries have come np before him, and the
wheels are now in motion that will bring tc
them the long expected jubilee. Oh then,
ye friends of the slave, work on We art
eagaged in a glorious work far more glo
rious than those that fight in fields of gore tc
obtain the laurels of war.
There is still a groat labor to be accom
plished by the friends of the oppressed. It
cannot be accomplished by political action,
under a proofs very constitution. We mart
afl unite in the work of persoasioo, and touch
i the undemanding, the sympathy, the feck
mgs, the interest, the honor, the character,
sad the reputation of the free!
Who hold the ouSioas is bonds? At pres
ent, it is the free men, in the free States, that
keep the fetters on the slave Let the free
Northern States take qff their hands from the
slave, and our labor is half done
Yours, Ac.,
DAVID WAITE.
Ashland, Q„ May 0,1848.
Ha, DofoLasa—Dear Sir:—l ait down to
writ* yon a few hoes behalf of my colored
friends that worn told s few day ago from
Washington and Georgetown. It mokes my
very Mood boil m my vefee; bat 1 hope the j
Lord is with them, far they fa*v« fern}
swindled oat of tlfetr rights, sad robbed of,
area the protect** at Bit few, which mea of
that place call justice.
I have jaat reeetved a better fro* George*
whom I had beea rabad wer/aehf. It made
my vary heart adw. Two of dm young
roea bad paid partly for themselves. One of
them was Thomas Taylor, of Georgetown,
owned by fawycr%ariMiry, who is writing in
the War Deportment at this time. The other
one is owned by Mr. Curtis, of that place,
who abn is ia public office. The vest of the
■mm I did wot receive, bat will get next
week. Yours, Ac.,
J. R. BRADLEY.
N. B.—l aee that Debay as doing won
derfully well ia the aouth part of this State;
and l hope that every colored man fa this
Stale will improve his ulenta, as I am trying
to do myaelf, so that they may be able to ad
vance the cause of the millions ia the Sooth.
J. R. B.
To Rev. Ileary Hiker, Chaplain U. S.
Senate,
Communicated far the TiiUmr.
Dear Sir :—ln ray letter to the editor of
the Albany Journal, describing the scene at
the Railroad Depot, I mentioned the fact that
yon, being present, greeted the Baltimore
slavedealet by extending to him the hand of
friendship while he was actually employed in
one of the most revolting crimes that ever*
disgraced humanity. lam unaware that that
statement, or any other part of the letter
contained any slur upon the Church with,
which you are connected, unless a discredit
may be reflect od upon it by the circumstance
that it contains within its bosom those who
uphold, by influence of position, the abomina
tion of slavery. It temains to be seen, sir,
whether the course you pursued at the cars,
could, by fair inference, be supposed to en
courage slavery and slavedealers.
In your address to me through the columns
of the Union, you say distinctly, 1 shook
hands with Mr. 5.,” and that you would do
so with any one. The accuracy of my de
scription of other parts of the-drama you do
not in the least deny; you do not say that the
tears were not falling from the eyes of separ
ated husbands and wives,parents and children;
you do not deny that the scene was revolting
to a feeling heart.
Yet, in the midst of this revolting specta
cle, you strike hands with the prime ac.or
You are so little aifecled by the brutal busi
ness, that you can calmly Tecognize and shake
bands with the dealer. Now, -sir, 1 ask you,
if from these circumstances, which you do not
deny, and those which you distinctly admit,
an honest inference might not be drawn, that
you justify slavery Let us see.
Upon this point, you say you went into the
care to see Henry, a member of your church.
It is true, that while one of Henry’s hands
was heavily ironed to that pf a fellow victim,
you shook the other, and passed the ordiuary
salutation with him. When he was about
starting to a land of torture and early death—
to that Hades of tills nation—you had not a
word of consolation, no word of hope for this
tender lamb of your flock. But you did enter
into conversation with his tormentor. With
hun you talked freely, and smiled in the pies
j ence of those victims, amid a scene that should
have pierced with pain and horror the hardest
'heart. What must have been Heury’s emo
j tions when he saw that hand, from which he
had received the emblems of Christ's body
I and blood, now extended to greet the wretch
’who was* consigning him to a premalure
grave By this act, expressing, not censure,
but encouragement, did you not justify the
trade in human beings Did yo i not assume
i the moral resi>onsibility of the slave-dealer
Can you give countenance to one engaged in
a crime, w ithout partaking of liis criminality?
Would you grasp the red right haud of the
assassin W ouid you reach forth your hand
in amity to one that holds the torch of incen
diarism Would the community-—would
1 your own conscience—hold you guiltless of
I the blow that pierced the victim, or of the act
j that fired the dwelling You cannot give aid
and countenance to a man engaged in crime,
1 without assuming Ins moral responsibility
j Yes, while a person is engaged in what
i your chuich esteems to be a crime—while he
is doing an act which you should utterly and
unequivocally condemn, you meet him, shake
hands with him, converse in a smiling man
ner, utter no reproof or warning, and (1 ask
you if the inference is not fairly drawn) justi
,fy his deed of baseness and crime, if this
-inference, expressed plainly as first, with the
j circumstances that gave birth to it. as correct
ly as I could then ascertain them, seems to
you to be an unkind slur upon your church
1 beg to assure you that you wrongly inter
pret my meauing. The reference has refer
ence solely to yourself, and loses its weight
when extended to others. If you believe that
the reputation of your church will sutler
when it is known* that one of its ministers
encourages traffic in the bodies and souls of
men, you will also see th3t the responsibility
rests with you and not with me.
I have thus far through life entertained a
high opinion of the doctrines of the Methodist
Church, as well as the general character of
its members. 1 did not mention the facts al
luded to for the purpose of casting odium up
on that body of Christians. Neither Christ
nor bis real followers were disgraced by the
conduct of Judas. Nor did Christ teach us
to cover up the sins of hypocrisy. On the
contrary, he himself was the first to proclaim
the wickedness of his unworthy follower.
In my letter I desired to inform my readers
that professing Christians not only bold slaves
but sell them and that a professed Christian
minister gave the hand of friendship to a
slavedeafer engaged m the actual perpetration
of outrages at which humanity shudders. But
I have since made full inquiry as to Slater's
relation to the Methodist Church. I find that
his connections generally are of that faith
i that he himself contributes to the support of
that denomination from the treasure acquired
in the traffic of human flesh that he owns a
permanent pew ia a Methodist Church ia Bal
timore, and that his wife and daughter are
members, but that he is not actually a cotn
i muiucant. With these facts, I presume, you
i must have been familiar; and when you took
I him by the hand, and east your eye over the
i victims around him, you must bare been con
scious that a portion of the treasure for which
the bones and muscle, the blood and sinews ol
those moth*** and babes that were to be sold,
would go to sustain the church and attuistry
to which you belong
i You intimate that such prostitutions of the
office of preacher and of the character of our
bolv religion are none of my baseness. The
remark give* the character of its author. F«
1 months have 1 beea accnstmaed reverently tc
listen to the voice of your supplication to i
i mire and holy God in behalf of our country.
That voice I subsequently heard addressing i
1 slavedealer in tones of friendship, without a
-1 urnrd of re pi oof, while be was m the actual
J perpetration of crows af the blackest dye.—
XhoM hands which I have ao often see*
raised to heaves ia prayer, were given u
*j friendly sithf—r*" to a notorious slavedealer
1 Was this none of my hnsinem Do y«u he
f lieve 1 could seam bear you provoke the
i wrath of heaven oy craving its blessings?
Would that I were able to impress yon wit)
thane fcebugs of sew*ihilwy exhibited Ire Um
I gum Founder of our religion. But 1 foe
humbled whew 1 reflect upon the lone and sen
j of your nwnmuniemiioo. Ia that mm
extraordinary fatter there as boa one word u
1 reproof for slavedealers or slaveholders. Na
have I ever heard you ta your preaching al
I lode to this horrid traffic carried un in this city
Such was not the preaching of the mmeew
fate Nasarane. He expoeod the iniquities a
r the people—laid open their sins to the ahem
ration «*f ssaakiad, aad proclaimed to the* tin
Tea mj tob fcava never known a Method,
■t engaged m the a!tte trade. Sir, krreyua
•et known yonr even chock ananhon id)
tlseir staves Da they oat hay slaves! Dm,
either the wßteg or buyhft ef slaves ndede
them flora year oenauum! No, nr; 1
mat he arsaafly informed if yaw do ate ad
minuter the Holy Sami meet to owe who
barter the image ef God lor paltry gain; and
that, too, without eren reproof from joe or
peer church! Now, the principle ie the name
whether a mao sell one slave or a tkmeaad
if slavery right, so in ihmleihf. If
it in right for a rasa to fob hie btoiher of
Ida liberty, to disrobe him of hie humanity,
and reduce him to a men brute, it earnout be
wrong to sell him.
Your effort to east odram npon Henry fir
aa attempt to regain the righto with which
God hod endowed him. and of which he hod
been robbed, exhibits on msenriMity to human
right* which, far n Christian minister, is too
appalling to contemplate. Was it wrung for
God to bestow npon him that inherent lore of
liberty with the right to enjoy it Was u
wrong hi this unfortunate youth to seek to
regain the liberty which God and nature de
signed for him, and of whieo ho was deprived*
■There con be but one answer given to such
questions.
I am su prised at your efforts to free your
self from the charge of justifying slavery,
while I am aware that to comraou conversa
tion vou have no hesitancy to express yonr
approbation of the institution, and your hos
tility to the attempts made for its abolition.

Your remarks in regard to Presbyterian
ministers, I have folly considered. The min
ister to whom I alluded was of another de
nomination, as 1 am informed cn reliable au
thority. lam ready to give at any time that
1 may deem it proper, the name of the de
nomination and of the person. My intention
in this i ote was to refer to matters personal
to yourself, and those parts of your communi
cation'relevant to the matter at issue. Here,
for the present, at least, I leave the whole
subject, which I have reviewed with reluc
tance. But, sir, let me assure you that w hen
man shall understand his duties to his fellow
man, when the principles of the gospel shall
be acknowled, then your letter will be regard
ed as showing the callousness of a minister in
tills slaveholding age!
I am. &c.,
JOHN I. SLINGERLAND.
Washington, May 10, 1818.
Scenes at Washington.
While witnessing the demonstration of the
miscreants at the Era Office last night, I ven
tured to express an opinion to a gentlemen
present, in opposition to the pervading feeling
of the mob, and upon passing across the
street, was stopped by one of the gang, who
wished to know whether 1 was an abolition
ist. 1 AM,” said 1, and what are you
going to do about it?” (Beginning to pull
off his coat.) You are, are you?” said hj.
Yes! and if you wish to save your skull,
you’d better move out of my way.” 1 raised
a good hickory cane that 1 held in my
hand, but was immediately pulled aside by a
gentleman who accompanied me, and who
boards in our mesa. He begged of me to
leave, as some few of the mob had marked
me. I politely informed him that I should go
where 1 thought fit, and if they wished to
make an issue with me, I was prepared for
them. I did remain till near one o’clock,with
my blood fully up to the boiling point while
there, and in fact dming the entire night. Oh,
that they could have had a Napoleon there
to teach them a lesson with grape and cannis
ter! His lessons were summary and effectual
to a mob.
The anti-slavery Members of Congress are
threatened, and even now, while I write, a'
gang of the ruffians are concocting their
hellish schemes at one of the pubhc hotels of
the city to mob them. Citizens are afraid to
move; the police are overawe*!; clerks in the
different departments of the General Govern
ment are ringleaders in the mob, with law
yers, doctors, and city councilmen. And yet
they are all a miserable set of cowards. Il
you will only meet them vith firmness, they
cower before you like whipped cure. Six
resolute men guarded the Era office last night
and kept the whole gang of five hundred at
bay, and I believe that fifty good men, such
as I could pick out in old Cuyahoga, could
drive the entire barbarous slavery horde into
the Potomac at the point of the bavonet.
In haste, E. L. S.
Front the Boston Courier.
Visit to the Prison.— In this
gathering place of the knowing men ami great
rogues of the land, there was one person
whom I was most desirous of seeing and
rendering honor to, and whom I first sought.
And where do you think 1 sought him In
the White-house—in the Senate —in the
Speaker’s chair No But in the prison—
locked up alone in a gloomy dungeon, that
had no window, or chair, or bed—that offered
him only its stone wall to lean against when
weary, and its stone floor to lie down when he
sought sleep.
It was only with much trouble and difficulty,
and with the aid of men who are held in fear
by the “powers that be,” that I was allowed
to visit him.
You know of course whom I mean—Dray
ton, the chief actor in the late noble and
daring attempt to free four-score human
beings from slavery and degradation. He
seenw made for a soldier in such a cause;
bold, stem, determined, ready to do battle
unto death in tbe cause of right. He is in
the fullness of manhood—a tall, stalwart fel
low, whose strongly-marked features and stea
dy eye denote character and courage, and
whose open and ingenuous countenance in
spire confidence ana respect. He will have
need, I fear, of all his vigor of body, and
all his strength of mind, to bear np
against tbe cruel treatment which baa
already begun, and which may last until
bin frame, now so vigorous and erect, is
bowed down with age, and bis eye, now so
dear and stem, is dimmed with the shadows
of death.
He is aware of hi* position aad h»danger,
indeed, be was well aware of the rak he ran,
I and counted the cost before be set out upon
his enterprise, and provided for his family in
case of hts capture. He is bow in tbe iron
I gnp of the law, made by slaveholders them
selves to protect what they call their property
in the bodies and souls of human beings, and
as sharp and strong as tbe wit of wicked
I men could make il. The law, too, is adminis
tered with a cruelty that is revolting. Tbe
man has been kept, till oow.mi sreref, as u is
icalled by the few European governments
which preserve this rdie of inquisitorial treat
ment. He in oonriderod gothy—be is nr
tusUy refused bail—be in cut off from ewn-
I tnuuion with his friend*—be m pot to the
i torture of solitude and suspense—he is treat
ed, in short, worse than would be a felon or
murderer And all this cruelty—where, and
far what? Why, in the capital, and under
tbe flag of that people whose shibboleth is
liberty,” whose creed is tbe right of every
man to tbe pursuit uf happiness, and far tbe
crime of folping men to pronounce that slab
bolrnh, and lire by Out creed!
The exriteme* among the slaveholder* w
still intense —their wrath is still hot, and
they mean to make Drayton drag out s life
of misery, sad be s firing beacon to detm
other* from attempting to knock tdT th*
tfecJOes of their slaves. The punishment foi
a slave wish a view of selling turn
i* imprisonment from to HO years, at ban
far taking him with a view of a *!m*
fom at liberty, it is payment of his mart*
vmtm, s fine of s*», and impnaunment it
the jafl.
With a redaearcot of enmity, tirey mean u
convict Drayton of dto crime of stoafinf
staves far bis own gats; and leal be Hugh
r five s*o years, aad then go not a fiey-bodo*
ana from bis prison, they mean to bring si
I indictment fo{ gsefc slave whom by tried h
entry off
Fai ling in tbe attempt to ewnirt him of the
first offence, they mean to eoaviet him of tbe
meuod, aad in ooe way or tbe otbsr, to glut
toil vengeance apes him.
Adivesunr AatMtiuvery Worn nfWert
New York.
radar a deep and ahafing irapreammiof the
doty we owe to God and our fellow beings,
toe Anti-Slavery wwuou ef Rotfirraer feel
eooMraraed to omtiawa to petwvesu is thrw
efforts for the oppyasul and auflmnc bond
men who sti.l remain tiling unrequited in the
Southern prison booset. We are frequently
brought painfully to remember that nut only
is their labor wrested than them asromonera
tod not only da they suffer fion istesse hun
ger and culd; not only are tbe females, urn
sistus, subjected to the cruel and pamioaatc
outrages of their tyrannical master* and over
seer* but there arc daily instances of sun
toting the dearest tics in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can we expect any
thing better—eon we look fur hcnevoSenee a
fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend
i*h as slavery Il would be unreasonable
because a corrupt tree cannot bring fort]
good fruit.” Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render rffi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionate!}
invite th* co-operation of the citiseos of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask then
1 tu boar in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “A!
thing* whatsoever ye would men should do u
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember
also, the beautiful parable in which he calk
our attention to the sick aad to those who an
ia prison, and concludes by the forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have done it toone of th«
least erf these, my brethren, ye have done ii
unto me.” We feel assured all that havt
hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to th«
j monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live for the good of our race, instoat'
of devoting all their time to their own per
sonal case—all who feel bound to improve thf
precious time allotted to them here, bv pio
ino ing as much as possible the cause of trutli
and righteousness in the earth, will com*; for
wird in the work of laboring to banish fbrevei
thi tie .non of slavery from our laud; and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a light to tl.t
world.”
We hope no one will feel too poor, nor ant
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. Th<
Christian's influence, in whatever situation, ii
always salutary, and will certainly produce iu
good effects. We ask for the aid of men aiu
of women; —we call on the old and th*
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and th*
merchant. We ask all and every one to giv*
j us their help to devote what they can spare
either of money or of tlie fruits of their la
bor, to tlie work of restoring men and womci
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rigid:
and blessings with which they were endowe*
by our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fai
in December next. We ask the females ii
the adjoining towns and country around us, t*
get up sewing circles, ami prepare such arti
j cles as will be most saleable, and to enme, fur
nish tallies, give us their company, and helj
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind o
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity
and thus be helpers in hastening the day o
emancipation.
Abigail Bush, Rochester.
Sarah D. Fish, to.
Sarah L. Hallowell, do.
Mart H. Hallowell, do.
Sarah A. Burtis, do.
Margaret A. Larson, do.
Elizabeth Sully, do.
Phebe Treadwell, do.
Charlotte S. Wilbur, do.
Hulda Anthony, do.
Rhoda De Garmo, do.
Catharine G. Braithwaite, do.
Sarah E. Thayer, do.
Catharine A. F. Stesmns, do.
Amy Post, do.
Henrietta Platt, Bath.
Susan R. Doty,; Farmington.
Maria Wilbur, do.
Elizabeth Smith, do.
Esther Hathaway, do.
Caroline Halstead, Walworth.
Julia Parker, do.
Eliza Cooper, Williamson
Amy Mott, do.
Rebecca M. C. Capron, Auburn.
C. G. Hamblin, Port Byron.
Margaret Prior, Waterloo.
MaryJAnn McClintock, do.
Laura Murray, Victor.
Mrs. Mackintyre, Darien.
WOMAN.
Still (be prune mover i» nud aawt be lute."
To expatiate upon the social condi
tion of woman, and to exhibit man;
traits in the female character, is a loft*
touching, and lovelj theme. It islofty
as it opens a field for the investigatioi
of all the nobler qualities of the bumai
mind, it is touching and lovely, as ii
them arc exhibited the emotions of tht
heart, the moving springs that promp
I to deeds of charity and mercy. Ii
‘them, wc discover the source of fh<
tender sensibilities and moral affections
While panegyric sinks before the name
of Hemans, Sigourney, and many oth
ers made immortal by their literary pro
ductions, it may not he uninteresting t<
notice some of the relations incident t<
them as social beings, and which an
important to them, either as sccurinj
their happiness or misery.
Woman in our social compact occu
pies a position, apparently, so elevated
so merited, and so firmly established
that it tnay hardly be thought, by some
(to furnish afield of sufficient interestt
attract our attention, or demand i
flourish of the pen. If it is true, tha
the social relations, in this our belovei
land, secure to woman all the privilege
and rights which Heaven designei
should fall to her lot, she now partici
pates, what has required centuries V
effect. The benign influences that nov
cluster aioird her pi.l’i, a e ti e resul
of that expansion of intellect, and tha
development of the moral attributes
that age» alone produced. The variou
causes, that combined to work the vas
changes, the benefit of which she nov
experiences, are found in revelation
have been multiplied by the progress c
science—owe their origin to the ligh
of Christianity, and present an inter
'esting feature of the annals of the pasi
But it is not true, that even in bur lam
of warm hearts and open hands,*’ sir
receives the regards her natural abili
ties and the important position she oc
cupics demand. She moves within i
sphere, the radiating influences of whicl
are to be pure, lovely, holy, or of th
most debasing character, proportional
to the nature of the fountain fron
whence they spring. She moulds eacl
successive generation. She impresse
the youthful mind with a signet tha
time connot efface that rcachc
through and takes a firm hold of im
mortality,
Tlten nay to mother*, what a holychacry
Is theirs; with \\h:»t a kingly power tlteiylove
Might rule die fountain of the new-born /.ullcct.”
Art may embellish, rigid sc ence maj
expand and expose to view t le hidder
treasures of the mind; but is left, tt
the soft pencilings of the giftet mother’s
hand, to impress on the heart J in livin'
characters, the attribute to be prizei
above all others, virtue. If such, then
be her heavenly calling, how lovoly
how sacred her mission! She is not
gemless casket.” The field of he
labor is as broad as time itself, and a
varied as her eccentricities of charac
ter. lllest with a versatility of geniu
by nature—equal to or surpassing tha
of her self-created lord—it is soon de
veloped when brought within the influ
ence of civilization, and burnished b
the spirit of refinement. There is i
chord running through society, touchei
by the magic of her hand, whose vibra
tions every heart can feel. Do vv<
turn to the pages of antiquity to lean
her early history, we there often fini
the impress of her lovely character.—
In the most ancient record to which w<
have access, we find that woman wa
created equal with man, or that in tin
creation, the term man is to be takei
in its generic sense, as comprehendin'
both sexes, and for reasons thereii
given, we find the following declaration
That man shall leave his father am
mother, and shall cleave unto his wife
and they shall be one flesh,” whicl
shows in what light the Creator of thi
human family regarded the marital ob
ligations, and the equality of the sexes
And that woman, at an early day, exer
cised an influence over man, is striking
ly exhibited in the case of Adam ant
Eve. And as an evidence of the te
nacity of female friendship, we have ar
early example in the wife of Cain. Foi
when God had pronounced sentence o
banishment upon Cain, and put a marl
upon him, his wife endured with meek
ness the mortifying sentence, anc
cheerfully with him suffered the pen
alty.
An.%l!.—“ Cain* thou hast heard wc must go forth
1 am ready;
So (iliall <>ur children be. I will beat
Enoch,
And y«u lm nister. F.rc the sun declines,
Let us depart, nor walk Uie wilderness
Under the clou-1 of night. Nay, speak to
me,
To me—thine own.
Cai.v—Leave me!
A uah —W hy, all have left thee!
Cain—And wherefore Lmgerest thou? Dost thou
not fear
To dwell with one who liath done this?
4 1»AH s I lear
Nothing except toleav» tlw-c, mqrh as I
Shrink fioin the deed that leaves thee
brotherles*.
My office is
Henceforth to dry up tears, uot to shed them,
But yet,of all who mourn, none mourn like
me;
Now, Ciin, I will divide thy burden with
lime.
-Ais—Eastward from Eden will we take our wav;
i is the most desolate, and suits my step*".*’
And if woman, by reason of par
aking of the forbidden fruit, subjected
lerself to the penulty of having her
torrowg increased, and that man should
•ule over her—Christianity teaches us
hat this sway should not be of a de
qmtie and tyrannical nature; but oue
>f kindness, being interested for her
welfare and the promotion of her hap
>incss. In early history, though doomed
o suffer, through the neglect of man,
>r in consequence of ignorance, bar
gain, and a debased state of s<>ciety
ret ns the glittering diamond discovers
tself in the dark/so has she, by the
irilliant display of intellect, often burst
he surrounding gloom and excited the
dmiratum of the world.
How 6oc ami «n:ir vi-Ilt*u th<* Wibth- intellect u
Ikaua’i I'rialiir! it a ium* ih» Imdy
Ami light# it like a i-Ur. It ihim
lunvrr; an-l like a watch-tow er
Tu tin- iulitk l,abuwa tlwrc u a Luwl to come.**
Her countenance, expressive with
the art legs smile that wins the heart
graceful and elastic in her movement)
——gentle aod coaMior in her bearinc
barbarism iuelf, uZfgk her
sinks to pity. and melts to feeder »ym
pathy. At her nod, the savage irtenn
tat ions cease, the kindling fame h
quenched,the avenger's hand belayed
and tunocence, unoutraged, goes soul
i ing oa her tray. If in the savage ©i
hunter state, the position assigned hei
1 is that of a menial slave—a beast o
burden —and her beauty, her loveh
uees, constitute the basis of her value
relatively, she is as highlr prized ant
as much appreciated by her wild untu
tored lord, as she is by her enlightenet
though hardly less severe trak-master
in s state where art and science havt
embellished, and brought into livelj
exercise, powers, alike possessed bj
her in nature, differing perhaps in de
gree, whether bora, where
The ftiiwMertng tenant of the frigid anae.
Boldly proclaim* that happiest *pot hi* wii
Kxil* die treasure* of hi* stormy *ra* f
Atvl ku long itigiu* of rtrclry ami ease.”
Or where
The naked negro panting at the line,
HoaMs of hi* gul-len saisl" ami palmy nine;
Barks iiJtlcr glare, or stem* tlw> trpugwmve.
And thaimi his jlor all the good they gate.”
Appreciation, then, in the savage 01
civilized state, without the ability ami
the disposition to elevate, is the same
Relatively, there is but little difference
in the social relations—as between the
sexes—in any age. By the savage
she is prised for possessing qualities
that shall most and best conduce to hi)
comfort and happiness. Among enlight
cued,she is scare* 1/ prized for anythin*
more or less. If in enlightened soci
ety, she moves in a more exalted spher*
—’tiseven so with the opposite sex.
The gradual progress of civilizatioi
and refinement, slowly elevated womai
from her original situation, to a positioi
I more congenial to her character an*
I genius. No sooner eid the light of sci
ence begin to dispel the darkness o
barbarism, which had for ages broode*
over the earth with the blackness o
midnight, and begin to exert its genia
influence ov- r the human mind, ener
vated for centuries by superstition an*
ignorance, than woman, with man, re
leased from mental bondage, acquires
a position in society more appropriat*
and important. Men of enlightenet
minds begin to esteem her for her rnanj
virtues, and admire her lovely charac
ter. Many were deified and venerate*
equally with the male deities, which in
dicates how much the sex by them wbi
prized. Still, her condition in Greece
the cradle of European intellect an*
civilization, show that, even whei
Greece was at the zenith of here re
finement and glory, woman had noi
acquired that station in society whicl
her genius peculiarly fitted. By the
forced and artificial institutions o:
Sparta,she was taught to cultivate anc
admire those qualities w'hich belong
exclusively to the masculine sea
—to wrestle, almost in a state of nudity,
promiscuously with men; to rejoice
over ths death of her son if he fell
gloriously in battle; to practise the
crime of infanticide upon her too feeble
offspring, and to sacrifice every femi
nine quality to the military success o
the republic.
At Athens, the birth place of tast*
and refinement, the value of intellect
ual female society was better acknowl
edged and felt. But there, usage an*
custom, more despotic and more tyran
nical than law, exacted of virtuous ant
ingenuous woman a life of seclusion.—
Hence, but few attained to much dis
tinction and they highly accomplish
cd, celebrated by poets, courted b)
philosophers and princes, sustaining
doubtful characters, ruled the world o
taste, beauty, and refinement, an*
usurped among the spiritual and beautj
loving Greeks those regards that be
long to purity and virtue alone.
It remains, then, for Civilization an*
Christianity combined, to give her tha
high position -evidently designed bj
God, and to secure to her the full frui
tion of all the immunities that her na
tural capacities and the advantages o
civilization claim for her. The inor*
expanded her intellect the pure]
her virtue—the severer her chastity—
the more exalted will be her position
the more powerful the influence slit
will exert over man. She being an ob
ject of man’s solicitude, the more h*
associates with her, the more will his
character assimilate itself to hers. Tn
a principle in morals, no less true thar
1 its consequences are terrible or com
mendable, that man assimilates hirnsel
to the character of the object he loves
or worships. If he admires the con
tentious and brawling woman, he will
soou become a warlike and villanous
man. If he admires that feature of tlic
female character which is symbolical
of the moral attributes, virtue, chastity,
love, and everything that gives life and
energy to godlike acts, the hard, un
malable parts of his moral fabric be
come softened, and soon his whole char
acter is changed. His lion-like ferocitv
is subdued. His gross nature is soon
refined, and as by magic, the hard
hearted, hard-fisted man, the groveling,
niggardly cormorant becomes the pol
ished gentleman.
Does the world of letters, or the vast
field of human science, present to the
gifted inind allurements that success
ively draw into deep exercise every ele
ment of the intellectual combination,
the literary conflict won, the mystic
problem solved, the charm that held the
inind, thus taxed to its extremest
stretch, now seeks repose. And where
can it be found, but with the sublime,
the heaven-born influences that alone
can be enjoyed where the social rela
tions are kept pure and sacred. Tis
there that the mental or physical labor
looks for that enjoyment which nowhere
else cau be found. 'Tis there that the
exhausted mind is ready to acknowledge
the truth, that though
Witloa may act, determine, or approve,
Still the prime mover is and utiiet lie love.”
II matters little whether we coin
template Palmyra's proud and gifted
queen, issuing from her lofty gates up
on the plains that surround that ancient
but gorgeous eitv, with her countless
legion* enlisted in her cause to the
death,” through the magic of her
queenly bearing—a token of her resist
less sway—to mingle in bloody carnage,
hand to hand with her enemies; or at
her bidding, burst from the conflict, to
seek protection from the sanguine field
vithin the city’a walls; or whether tre
listen to the wisdom ami fttwer of her
counsels, when in the audit of her aa-j
sembled ministers of State, men gifted
in aM the learning of their time, and]
having much experience, she -astounds 1
them with the vastnettof her mighty
projects, elicits their profound alientkat
by the beauties and reasonableness of,
her logic; end in the originality of her,
designs, alike excites their wonder and;
admiration. In speechless amazement
they listen till the pleasure of thought
becomes painful, till they can no longer
restrain their emotions, and then, nr
accents of merited applause, siraulta- 1
neously break out with, Long live our
matchless Zeno bis!” 1
It matters little, whether we contest
Slate the long celebrated Cleopatra, by
er beauty, her fascinations, subjecting
to her sway the conqueror of a world,
a Caesar, one of the greatest warriors
of which history speaks, or when sum
moned to the Judgment Hall to receive
sentence of expatriation or death—we
behold her, by artifice, subvert the
channels of justice, win to her favor
and excite the admiration and love of
her judge—forgetful of other martial
obligations—and obtain the half an em
pire. If wc are surprised that she
could so hold enslaved the atTections of
an Anthony, a Triumvir of the Roman
Empire, as that he should stab himself
on hearing of her death, we can hardly
he less astonished to witness her giving
audience, at the same time, to seven
different nations, speaking their lan
guages as fluently as her own. With
out multiplying examples, I say it mat
ters little in what aspect we view the
mighty influences these heroines, cen
turies past, exerted over the destinies
of men and empires. On either hand
we see their fearful power. In it we
recognize those remarkable traits, often
strikingly exhibited in the female char
acter, which commend them to us as
objects worthy our profound regard and
deep solicitude, which furnishes evi
dence that rather militates against the
somewhat accredited doctrine, that
“man is the lord of creation,” and
evidence that the term man, when used
in this connection, is to be taken in its
generic sense; and evidence, too, that,
in this-universal administration, neither
one could with propriety say to the
other, I have no need of thee.” If,
then, the deduction drawn be true, and
is, that it would be hazardous to anni
hilate from the face of the earth either
species of the human family, the con
clusion follows that the relations
between the two are and must be
of a deeply interesting character; that
these relations should be fostered with
the greatest care, the interests of each
should ever be regarded as the mutual
interest of both. That as they are
concomitants of the physical world,
only moving in different spheres, and
are each, by their immortality, equally
allied to the spiritual existence; the ir
physical being should be nurtured, edu
cated, exercised, differing only as to
the orbits in which they move; while
their spiritual being should he equally
subject to and receive the same disci
pline. Then away with the idea, that
after man, woman was created, to pan
der to his wants, his passions, appetite
and lust. Woman was horn to a no
ble, more exalted, holier calling. And
of that day, when she shall fully enjoy
the high behests that her calling merits,
we may well say,
S\vc«:t day, s-i pure, so mlin, so bright.
Tin: bi Mai of the earth and sk\
Though, possibly, her mind may not be
so strong and penetrating as that ol
man, yet, doubtless, she possesses 'a
greater versatility of genius. Whilt
the one is cumbrous and sluggish in its
movements, and like time moves slowly
on, the other, with its natural elasticity
and quickness of apprehension, grasps
subject after subject in quick suc
cession.
Is she desirous of figuring in th«
world of letters, she soon attains tt
literary distinction. Does she crav<
her minstrelsy, the muse,at her bidding
adds numbers to her song. By her fre
quent investigations of developments ir
solid soience, she soon merits more
solemn praise. If like man, she i:
subject to passion, while the fortnci
feels but little compunction of con
science for his crime, she, like Althea,
kills herself in grief. Patient, enduring,
she is scarcely less irresistible that
man in the accomplishment of anv ob
ject. That she possesses a large share
of man’s affections, in every age ol
the world, is now too well under
j stood to require further argumentative
support.
The heathen idolator, having but a
faint idea of the Christian’s God,deifies:
the object of his youthful passion. Hei
spirit having flown to the spirit land,
fruitful in his imagination as to the
transit of the cherished object of hia
devotions, and subject to wild vagaries,
the fruitful progeny of ignorance, he
thinks he discovers in the starry pano
ply a new constellation, It is the lonely
star of his idolatry. It is to him the
spirit of his love, beckoning him hence
to join her in her celestial residence.—
And if he does not at once, with the
hand of desperation, give exit to his
life, he sacrifices to the object of his dei
fication, with a devotedness that should
put to shame the faint adoration of the
Christian worshipper. If, then, ’tis
thus, that by the heathen—a people
with whom virtue and chastity possess
no charm, and speak a language un
heard by the savage ear woman is
regarded, what a rising greatness
awaits her when a knowledge of the
arts and sciences and refinement shall
supersede ignorance and barbarism—
when fanaticism, superstition and big
otry shall give place to the peaceful
elevating influences of Christianity.
By nature, she is fittted to occupy a
position as elevated and dignified as her
self-created master. And though she
is often treated by him as his drudge,
or a convenient piece of household fur
niture, tis but a striking evidence of
his mental imbecility and moral depra
vity. It argues nothing against her:
being as intellectual as himself, or that
she is not admirably calculated to ad
minister to his physical pleasures and to
his mental entertainmeut-—to check the
outbreaking* of hia more violent nature
—to soften the too hard features of bis
sterner character—to cultivate (he more
tinder feelings of his soul, and to exart
upon him that pacifying influence with*
out which he had been a brute.
A SINGULAR STORY.
A ewWMoadetit of the National Erl
translated the following article fromtftrt
Magsain Uahrvml, published in Paris.
I am about to recount a story,
which, like man/ others of the sann
kind, Mr. Thomason, a missionary, ban
lately told in a public meeting held oi
the subject of slavery.
’A young physician, of much meril
and knowledge, made a journey Aon
his native town in one of the Northers
1 States to a town in Mississippi. This
young man, whose name was Wallis,
took lodgings in a furnished house.—
The mistress of it, a young warn as
about twenty years old, inspired in hia
the most ardent love. Although th<
color of the young woman was not o;
the purest white, the doctor having n<
prejudice against the colored race, of
fered her his hand, which was accepted
The marriage took place almost secret
ly, and the happy couple went soon af
terwards to establish themselves in
Washington, in the District of Colum
bia.
They had not been there long, where
they lived peaceably and retired, when
one morning an in&vidual, who had the
appearance of a gentleman, presented
himself at Dr. Wallis’s, under the pre
tence of business. The conversation
proceeded, when the stranger address
ed the following indiscreet question tc
the doctor:—
Did you bring a woman with you
from the South, sir?’*
No, sir; I do not understand you.”
How!” rejoined the stranger; “did
not your wife come with you from Mis
sissippi
“I believe she was born in that
country,” said the doctor.
Well your wife, as you call her, is
piy slave; and unless you pay me im
mediately nine hundred dollars for her
purchase, I will, to-morrow advertise
her as a runaway slave. In fact, she
is worth a thousand dollars at least;
but, as you have married her, 1 will
abate something.”
Your slave!” exclaimed the aston
ished doctor that is impossible.”
Whether you believe me or not,”
cried the ether, “you must give her up,
or pay the money.
If, in twenty-four hours, the money
is not sent to my hotel, I promise you,
my dear sir, that you will see the name
of Mrs. Wallis in the newspapers, as
that of a fugitive slave.”
As soon as the man was gone,. the
loctor went to his wife, whose good
]ualitics, virtues, and graces, rendered
ler so dear to him.
“My dear angel,” said he, “when
ive were married, were you a slave?”
Yes, I was, she confessed, at the
same time shedding abundant tears.”
“Why did you not tell me before
the ceremony was performed?”
I did not dare do it. Could I have
expected you would ally yourself to e
slaver”
Well, now I know it, I will give
the nine hundred dollars required, foi
I love you too much to consent to a
separation.”
During this short dialogue, Mrs.
Wallis was laboring under the most
lively agitation. She asked her hus
band to describe the appearance of the
claimant, which he did as exactly as
possible; then he asked her whether
the description answered to that of her
ancient master.
Yes,” said she, casting down her
eyes; he is more than my master; he
is iny father.”
THEODORE D. WELD.
Mr. Stanton, while on his way tc
Washington, called on that remarkable
man, and thus writes in the Emanci
pator:
“I spent half a day with Theodori
D. Weld. He is living somewhat
retired on his farm at Belleville, New
Jersey, about ten miles from this city,
Though his views of some subject*
have materially changed from what
they were when in years gone by, his
helmet shone conspicuous in the thick
est of the fray, he is still an observant
spectator of the great conflict; and in
my judgment, certainly in my hope,
the time is not far distant when he will
again mingle in humanity's battle.
Would it not bo a gallant sight to sec
the early champion of the Anti-Slavery
enterprise once more with shield and
buckler, and lance in rest, taking the
field! How his clear and courageous
voice, soundiug to the charge, used tc
send the life-blood of freedom galloping
through the veins of the consecrated
host!” What compactness of argu
ment—what keenness of analysis—
what fertility of illustration what
splendor of imagination—what fervor
of appeal—what mastery of the vast
outlines and of the minute details of
question, used to mark his efforts with
tongue and pen! And though he is
now in retirement, and may never strike
another blow for the cause, and may
sink into his grave years hence almost
forgotten, yet who shall complain?
During the five years he labored as
incessantly, he did the work of an age.
But I hope his sun is not yet set.
Though his bodily health is impaired,
he still has the physical vigor of no
ordinary man, while his mind glows as
brightly as of yore.
Coal* or Fiux. A worthy old
colored woman in the cky of New
York was walking one day along the
street quietly smoking her pipe. A
jovial sailor rendered a little mischie
vous by liquor, came sailing down,
and when opposite the old woman,'
saucily pu»h<>d her aside, and with a 1
pan of his hand, knocked the pipe out
of her mouth. He than halted to hear
her fret at his trick and enjoy a laugh
at her expense. But what was his as
tonishment when she meekly picked up
the pieces of her broken pipe, witkout
the least resentment in tier manner;
and giving him a dignified look of min
gled sorrow, kindness, and pity, said,
God forgive you, my son, as l do.',
—lt touched a tender chord in the
heart of the rude tar. He felt asham
ed, condemned, and repentant. The
tear started in his eye—he must make
reparation. He heartily confessed kis
error, and thrusting both hands into kit
full pockets of change, forced the con
tents upon her, exclaiming, God
bless you, kind mother. I’ll never do
so again/*
Tins PARIS PRINTERS*
About the middle of September, tbe
t l journeyman printers of Peris made the
i usual arrangements to celebrate their
1 annual dinner. For several years not
the slightest opposition bad been off*
i ered to their so doing; particularly as
the banquet was of a social and private
1 character, wholly unconnected with
politics. But already had miaistevs
rand their friends entered upontbe false
sod fatal path which led than to dam
i- tructhm. The banquet was to have
taken plate at a restaurant. Just as
the body of workmen were about to «t
down, a commissary of police ordered
j them to disperse. Being backed, as
tbe man in office was, by mi/nicioal
guards and soldiers, the artisans, after
protest, obeyed but, determined not
1 to be baalked of their feast, demanded
i permission of a printer, known for his
liberal opinions, to meet on his private
i premises, outside the town. The pritt-
I ter seceded and as the law distinctly
,t allows meetings in a private bouse,
j on the proprietor’s own responsibility,
,no fear was felt for the result. But,
with the idea which now actuated the
prefect of police, guided as he was by
the cabinet, legality wan of little mo
ment. Scarcely had the printers re
assembled at the locale which had been
generously placed at their disposal, era
some hundreds of soldier*, municipal
guards, and s commissary of police
presented themselves anew, entered
the printer’s house, and forcibly dis
persed the assembly which, however,
as a last resort, scattered itself in knots
of ten and fifteen, in the neighbouring
estaminets, restaurateurs, and wine
shops. Here, however, again the
indefatigable police appeared, and
summoned the proprietors to turn them
out. This insolent outrage excited
little notice at the time but that it waa
not without effect may be surmised
from the fact that every journeyman
printer in Paris turned out against the
government during the three days ol
February, 1848.— St. John's Revolu
tion in 1848.
The Fate or the Investor or the
Guillotine. —His retreat was so pro
found that it was*sftid, and readily be
lieved, that he, too, had fallen a victim
to his own invention. But it was not
so; he was indeed imprisoned during
the Jacobin reign of terror, his crime
being, it is said, (Gugot, p. 3,) that he
testified an indiscreet indignation of i
proposition made to him by D&nton, tc
superintend the construction of a triple
guillotine. There is no doubt that a
double instrument was thought of, and
it is said that such a machine was
made, and intended to be erected ii
the great hall of the Palais de Justice
but it was certainly never used, and w<
should very much, and for many rea
sons, doubt whether it could have beei
a design of Danton. The general jai
delivery of the 9th Tliermidor release*
Guillotin, and he afterwards lived, in i
decent mediocrity of fortune, at Paris
esteemed, it is said, by a small circle o
friends, but overwhelmed by a deej
sensibility to tbe great, though we can
not say w holly undeserved, misfortune
which had rendered his name ignomini
ous, and his very existence a subject o
fearful curiosity. He just lived to set
the restoration, and died in his bed, ir
Paris, on the k 26th of May, 1814, aged
76. Quarterly Reticle.
Precocity op Intellect.— Having
watched the growth of the young mine
a good deal, I am less and less in lov<
with precocity, which, indeed is often
mere inanifestating of disease—the dis
ease of a very fine, but very weak ner
vous organization. Your young Ros
ciuses, and ail your wonders of that
kind, generally end in the feeblest
common-place. There is no law, how
ever, precise and absolute in the mat
ter. The difference of age at wbicl
men attain maturity of intellect, am
even of imagination, is very striking.—
The tumultuous heat of the youth has
certainly given birth to many of the no
blest things in music, painting and poe
try; but no less fine productions hav<
sprung from the ripeness of years.—
Chattcrton wrote all his beautiful thing!
exhausted all hopes of life, and saw
nothing better than death at the age ol
eighteen. Burns and Byron died in
their thirty-seventh year, and I think
the strength of their genius was over.
Raphael, after filling the world with di
vine beauty, perished at thirty-seven;
1 Mozart earlier. These might have pro*
duced still greater works. On the other
1 hand, Handel was forty-eight before he
gave the world assurance of a man.”
Dryden came up to London from the
provinces, dressed in Norwich drugget,
somewhat above tbe age of thirty, and
did not even know that he could write
a line ot poetry. Yet what towering
vigor and swinging ease all at once in
glorious John!” Milton had, indeed
written his Comus at twenty-sax; but
blind, and fallen on evil daya and
evil tongues,” he was upward of fifty
when he began his great work. Cow
per knew not bis own might till he waa
far beyond thirty, and his Task waa not
written till near his fiftieth year. Sir
Walter Scott was also upward of thirty
before he published bis Minstrelsy, and
all his greatness was yet to come.—
Aird’s Old Bachelor.
Time Lost.— -One of the sands in
the hour-glass of time is, beyond com
parison, more precious than gold. In
nothing is waste more ruinous, or more
sure to bring unavailing regrets. Bet
ter to throw away money than mo
ments for time is much more than
money. As we lose oar days, we
incur an increasing risk of losing our
souls. “The lifo-blood of the soul
runs out in wasted time.” The years
which have winged their flight have
gone to the recording angels; and
what is the report they have borne
to heaven?” Will the record testily
for us or against us, when the throne
of the Son of Man shall be’ set, and
Uu book* shall be opened
—u-... i
Faasisii Wisdom.—lt is said that in
the Treasury of one of tbe monarch* of
Penis, was found a vase, with the fol
lowing lines tinged with humor as
well as philosophy, inlaid in gold:—
“He who has wo wealth, has no
credit; be who has wot an oheftjenl
wifo, has no repose; he who bar no off*
•P*»g, has no strength; ha who has
none of these, Uvea free from every
care!”
