SHACKFORD’S LECTURE ON THE WAR WITH MEXICO
I take as the subject of my Lecture,
the “War with Mexico,” because it is.
at present, the subject which should
engage our attention, it is the question
of our country, in which its prosperity
is most concerned. And I take it,
moreover, because there is a disposition
very generally manifest, to leave this
subject exclusively to professed politi
cians, when these politicians themselves
take their tone from the people, and
are but the echoes of public senti
ment.
Hence it would be to lose all moral
influence, for us to be quiet and silent,
leaving to them the exclusive considera
tion of this great question. God be
thanked, that there is yet left some lit
tle appearance of freedom, and that out
public affairs have not yet fallen to the
absolute disposal of a few, with no op
portunity for the rest to send forth re
monstrance and rebuke. If, then, it
be true that office-holders are not our
hut rather th'* servants of pub
lic opinion; if they an* loir the hands to
execute our u'ork. and tin; mouth
pe- -.es to express our thoughts, it be
longs to each one t let Ins thoughts
and work be kn >wn. Kach one is to
take heed that he shall do something
towards giving a high, pure, and Chris
tian tone to the opinion of that circle,
however small it may be, in which he
moves; so that, finally’, all the many
streamlets shall converge to one centre,
and thus shall fertilize and bless the
whole country.
It sometimes happens in the private
history of an individual, that when he
begins to congratulate himself upon
Ins exalted stale, the ground shakes
beneath him, and he falls an easy vic
tim to some sin or passion, which lie
thought' he had escaped. The mist
envelopes him, and shuts out the sun
light. And so it is w ith a people. We,
to-day, exemplify the fact in our own
history. Wc, who have boasted so
much of the wisdom and philanthropy
of our times, who began to speak ol
war as the relic of barbarous ages, and
fluttered ourselves that we were re
moved from the dangers of foreign
war, despotic armies, and a resort to
sword and cannon; we, who hoped that
the reign of force, and the day of the
bloody warrior was well nigh over; that
the peaceful kingdom of industry, sci
ence, arts, schools, commerce, justice,
and love had begun to dawn, and
would speedily culminate into the full
brightness of noon; who were nur
tured in abhorrence of foreign war,
and thought we had opened a fairer ca
reer of progress than any of the old
nations, weakened und worn out by
their very conquests; we, wh looked
upon a national war as an impossibility,
have had our pleasing dream dispelled.
The shadows are about us, and a
dense cloud envelopes every object.
We art; engaged in a war of con
quest. All the resources of our nation
for to-day and many days to cotnc, arc
THE NORTH STAR..
'l applied to inflict the horrors of war
j upon a neighboring people. We art
recorded in the book of history, as the
murderers of thousands whose only
crime was living upon their native soil.
We have sent thousands of «o?r breth
ren to die bv the sword and pestilence,
to stain their hands in blood, to be
trained in the school of abject slavery,
to stifle conscience and the thought ol
better things, to forget their humanity
and the sweet influences of a mother's
prayer, to learn the trade of vengeance
and destruction. We have caused to
ascend the crp ian’s cry and the wid
ow ’s wail. We have sacked cities,
overturned thefpursuits of peace, and
used our wealth, science, means, and
men, for war upon a foreign soil.
Truly is this matter the question ol
to-day; and the question, not of politi
cians merely, but of every individual
who has heart, or thought, or con
science. It is a question which should
torment each one of us, until it is an
swered, how we shall do our pait to
wards right and justice; how, whatever
evils may beial, we may ieel tUut out
consciences are tree from blame, Not
yet in our country are the governed
one caste, and the governors another.
While, therefore, we are all interested,
we are all responsible. In the name of
the people, of which we aie a part, is
this war waged. To the extent, there
fore. of our acquiescence by silence,by
indifference, by a lct-a-lone policy, are
we really guilty.
About twelve years ago, when the j
idea of the annexation of Texas to the
United States was derided by men ol
all parties, as would lie the idea of the
annexation of Botany Bay,—when the
Politicians were asleep and saw no
signs of the approaching evil, —there J
proceeded from one w ho was regarded
by them as a mere Dreamer and The- j
orist, and was directed to stick to his
trade of preaching from the pulpit, a
word which was a voice of prophecy,
so literally has it been fulfilled. At that
time Dr. ('banning wrote his letter to
Henry Clay “On the Annexation ol
Texas to the United States,” a letter
which, like the w arning of all prophets,
fell upon deaf and incredulous ears. In
this letter he says: By this act, our
country will enter on a career of en
croachment, war, and crime, and will
merit and incur the punishment arid
woe of wrong-doing. The seizure oj
Texas will not stand alone. It will
darken our future history. It will be
linked by an iron necessity to long
continued deeds of rapine and blood.— i
Texas is a country conquered by our
citizens; and the annexation of it to
our Uni m, will be the beginning of con
quests, which unless arrested and beat
en back by a just and kind Providence,
will stop onhj at the Idhmus of Darien.
Henceforth we must cease to cry,
peace, peace! Oir Eagle trill u'hrt,
no! <rirge its appetite on its first victim
and will snuff' a more tempting quarry,
more alluring blood, in every new re
gion which opens Southward. To an
nex Texas is to declare perpetual war
with Mexico. Texas is the first
step to Mexico The moment we plant
our authority on Texas, the boundaries
of these tiro countries trill become nomi
nal, will be little more than lines on the
sand of the sea-shore. Can Mexico
look without alarm on the approaches
of this ever-growing tide? Is she pre
pared to be a passive prey? to shrink
and surrender without a struggle? Is
she not strong in her hatred, if not in
her fortresses and skill?— strong enough
to make war a dear and bloodij game
Even were the dispositions of our gov
-1 eminent most pacific and opposed to en
croachment, the annexation of Texas
would almost certainly embroil us with
Mexico. Have we counted the cost
of establishing and making perpetual
these hostile relations with Mexico?—
Will wars, begun in rapacity, carried
on so far from the centre of tlie confcd
oraffon, and of consequence, little
cheeked or c ih.it!ed b>\ ('mj’ress, add
strength to our institutions, or cement
our Union, orexeit a healthy moral ‘in
fluence on rulers or people? What
limits can he set to tiie atrocities of
such conflicts? Whnt limits to the
treasures which 'mu>t be lavished on
such distant borders? What limits to
the patronage and power which such
distant expeditious must accumulate in
the hands of the Executive l Are the
blood and hard-earned wealth of the
older States to be poured out like wa
ter, to protect and revenge a new peo
ple, whose character and condition
wffll plunge them into perpetual
wrongs
Those words have now become his
torical fact. They contain the whole
explanation of the war in which we are
noiv engaged. r l hey were based on n
knowledge of the essential principles of
human nature, a keen perception of the
realities of national character, and pro
ceeded from one w ro wrote free from
the bias of party and political ambition,
whose finer instincts were alive to the
influences at work in the moral world
of causes.
But no one believed in the necessity
of the warning. One year passed af
ter another, and the advocates of this
measure were pursuing their work, oji
eraiing stealthily and steadily. Mo
party dared to advocate the measure of
Annexation. As is well known, our
Massachusetts Legislature in |(S43 pro
tested against it in the strongest terms
and both Whigs and Democrats united
in the protest. The Cabinet of Van
Buren, when Texas first applied, in
1817, were unanimous in rejecting the
proposal. Mr. Forsyth, the Secretary
of State, thus replied: So long as
Texas shall remain at war, while the
i United State* are at peace with her ad
versary, the proposition of the Texan
Miui*ter Plenipotentiary', necessarily in
ro/rcs the question of tear tedh that ad
RIGHT IS OF XO SEX-TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-OOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
versary." And, again, in 1&44, Mr.
Van Buren wrote, as te tstbU men,
1 we cannot avoid the conclusion, that
1 the immediate annexation of Texas
would draw after it a war with Mexico,
can it be expedient to attempt it
Could we hope to stand justified in the
eyes of mankind for entering into such
a war? More especially, i its com
mencement is to be preceded by the ajy
propriation to our own uses of the terri
tory, the sovereignty of which is in dis
pute between tiro nations, one of which
we are to join in the struggle?” And
Henry Clay wrote atthesime time,
“Annexation and tear with Mexico are
identical.” And a large meeting at
New York, composed of mm of both
parties, at the same time, unanimously
adopted the following resolution, re
ported by a prominent Democrat:
Resolved, That the Annexation of
Texas to this Union, as now contempla
ted, would, according to the acknowl
edged lairs of nations he a positive de
claration of war against Mexico, a war
of conquest and an unjust war, in
which this nation would be supported
by no sense of right, and be condemned
by the unanimous voice of the civilized
and Christian world.”
What else could be made of it?—
Mexico was at war with Texas. We
had an existing treaty with Mexico, then
in full force, which stipulated, that
there should be a firm, inviolable, and
universal peace, and a true and sincere
friendship between the United States ol
America and the United Mexican States,
in all the extent of their possessions.”
Now what can be said of the measure
of incorporating, as a pait of our ter
ritory, and thus adopting all her quar
rels, a nation with which Mexico was
at war, and which she claimed the
right at any moment of invading.—
What if the Canadas had become sep
arated from Great Britain, and we had
thus incorporated the territory into our;
own? According to the law of nations,
would not war have been inevitable
with Great Britain? Would this deed,
think you, have been dared? What it
South Carolina had carried out her
plan of nullification, had thrown off all
connection with the United States, and
war having followed, England had en
tered even into an alliance with that
State, would not England have expect
ed to go to war with our country,
also
It is/ indeed, too plain a point to be
argued; and so Gen. Houston thought;
for lie says very coolly in Congress,
when the Senate w as deliberating, May,
1845, on the war message: It is now
too late to deliberate. Texas and Mex
ico have been long at war, and the
United States became a party to thatj
war in consenting to annexation.”— J
Why, Gen. Jackson, in IsT>, even in;
regard to the minor point of acknowl
edging the Independence of Texas,!
says: “The acknowledgment of a new
State as independent, is at all times an
act of great delicacy and responsibility;
but more especially so, when such aj
State has forcibly separated itself from
another, which still claims dominion 1
over it. A premature recognition, un
der these circumstances, if not looked!
upon as justifiable cause of war, is
ahvays liable to be looked upon as proof
of an unfriendly spirit to one of the con-'
tending parties.”
But time passed on. The slave
power, blind to all rights where its own
prosperity was concerned, used to'
trample upon the rights of man, nursed
in oppression and force, this power was
at work, and resolved upon annexation
in spite of all danger, the law of na
tions, treaties, and protests. A new
slave-market must be opened. Texas
must be secured to us forever from be
coming an independent free State, or
“ourdomestic institution' 5 will be very
short-lived. Mr. Upshur said in 1839,
in the Virginia Convention, “If it
sh >u!d be our lot to acquire Texas, the
price of slaves will rise.” And when
it was feared that Texas would abolish
slavery, the Secretary of State, tiie
same Mr. Upshur, i:i 1843, wrote to
our Minister in Texas, “That the es
tablishment in the very midst of our
slaveholding States of an independent
government forbidding the existence of
slavery, could not faij to produce the
most unhappy effects. There could
not be any security for that species of
property.” And in 1844, he wrote to
our Minister in England, “If Texas
should not be attached to the United
States, we cannot inaintoiu that institu
tion teu years.”
And so the slave interest labored
with dogged perseverance, caring little
for reproach or opposition. Its work
was aided by the cunning Texans, who
played upon the fears, hopes, and am
bition of the imbecile Tyler,—now talk
ing of abolition, now of a union with
Englaud, all of which has been since
confessed, by those most interested, to
have been the veriest humbug and
pretence. And when the treaty of An
nexation with Texas was finally con
cluded, Mr. Calhoun, then Secretary of
State, had the sublime audacity to tvrite
to Mr. Pakenham, tlie British Minis
ter, that “it was made necessary, in
order to preserve domestic institutions
and deemed essential to their safely atul
prosperity.” After tins treaty was re
jected by the Senate, as is well known,
Texas was admitted by a “Joint Reso
lution,” which passed tbc House on the
16th December, and the Senate on the
•J-Jd December, 1815. She was admit
ted with a Constitution sufficiently re
prbtican and just to satisfy the most
bigoted slave-driver of South Carolina.
It provided that aftnersons of color,
who were slaves for v, should remain
lin the like state of servitude, and that
Congress should pass no laws to pro
hibit emigrants from the United States
of America from bt inging their slaves
into the republic with them: that Coo-
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1818.
gress should have no power to emanci
pate slaves, and that no slaveholder
should be allowed to emancipate his or
her slaves; and that no free person ol
African descent should be permitted to
reside permanently in the republic.**—
Such was the precious we took
from Mexico! But in saying this, I
wrong Mexico herself; for while Texas
was a province of Mexico, according to
her laws, the alave who trod upon the
soil became a freeman. These shining
beauties of the jewel were brought out
as preparatory measures, to fit her for
joining our free and glorious Union.
What now, on the consummation of
i this measure, could Mexico do? Could
it not have been suffered, that after all
her wrongs, and the contempt which
had been put upon her threats and cotn-
Elaints; after the appropriation,
y a professed friend and ally, of the
territory for which she was at war; af
ter thus humiliating her pride, and set
ting at naught her entire national ex
istence; could it not have been suffered
that she should manifest some sense of
injury, and make some exhibition of
wounded honor? What could the Mex
ican Minister do but demand his pass
ports and return to his government?—
What could Mexico do, but break off
all diplomatic intercourse Mexico,
according to the received laws of na
tions, would have been justified at once
in proceeding to war; for she formally
announced to our government that she
would regard the measure of Annexa
tion as a declaration of war.
But Mexico was weak, distracted,
powerless to contend, and therefore a
little harmless blustering should
have been permitted, to assuage hcjti
irritation. She did not give way qven
to this. She preserved her dignity in
the midst of her most burning desire of
vengeance. When the Consul of the
United States was directed by the Pres
ident to ascertain from the Mexican
government, whether it would receive
an Envoy intrusted with full powers to
adjust all the questions in dispute be
tween the two governments, the Minis
ter of Foreign Relations, Penay Pena,
replied, “That although the Mexican
nation was deeply injured by Hie United
States, his government was disposed to
receive the Commissioner of the Uni
ted States, who might come with full
powers from his government, to settle
tlie present dispute in a peaceful, reason
able, and honorable manner”.
Here was an opportunity for our gov
ernment, if it had been inclined to
peace, to have commenced the settle
ment of the existing difficulties. But
instead of sending a Commissioner,
such as Mexico agreed to receive, our
government sent a man of no national
reputation, a mere hack politician,
without dignity and without the requi
site qualifications to act in such an
emergency —John Slidell, of Louisiana
—as Minister Plenipotentiary, to residt
near the government of Mexico. This
was a direct and palpable insult t<
Mexico. It supposed that ‘.he govern
ments were on an entirely friendly
footing. It ignored all causes of com
plaint and injury, and, as might have
been anticipated, the popular feeling in
Mexico would not allow the minister tc
be received.
The Mexican Minister replied to Mr.
Slidell’s request to be accredited as
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Ple
nipotentiary, that the supreme gov
ernment of Mexico cannot admit his'
excellency, Mr. Slidell, to the exercise
of the functions of the mission con
ferred on him by the United States
government, but that he will have the
utmost pleasure in treating with Mr.
Slidell, as soon as he shall have pre
sented credentials, authorizing him ex
pressly and exclusively to settle the
questions which have disturbed the
harmony and good understanding be
tween the two republics, and which will
bring on w ar between them, unless such
settlement be effected in a satisfactory
manner.” Why did not our govern
ment, if it had been really desirous of
peace, recall its Minister, and send
such a Commissioner as Mexico de
sired? But so far from doing this, it
anticipated, and seemed to welcome
this rejection. Secretary Buchanan
writes to Mr. Slidell in March, 1846,
that in the event of the refusal of the
Mexican government to receive him in
the capacity of Resident Minister, he is
“so to conduct himself, as to throw
the whole odium of the failure of the
negotiations upon the Mexican govern
ment. In the meantime, in anticipa
tion of the final refusal of the Mexican
government to receive you, the Presi
dent lias ordered the army of Texas to
advance and take position on tlie left
hank of the Rio Grande, and has di
rected that a strong fleet shall be as
sembled in the Gult ot Mexico.”
Mistaking entire ly the temper of the
Mexican government, which wanted
only some little sop to its wounded pride
and to gain time, by delay, for the pas
sions and prejudices of the people to
subside, the blundering Slidell writes
home to the Secretary of State, that
the Mexican people must be convinced
by hostile deroonstraiinns, that our dif
ferences must be settled promptly.”—
And accordingly, on the Lkh of Janu
ary, 1846, Gen. Taylor was ordered to
advance to the Rio Grande.
On the 6th of April, Taylor had
mounted a battery of eighteen pound
ers, which, *u his own w ord*, w ere
brought to bear upon the public square
of Matamoras, and within good range
for demolishing the town.” And two
weeks after this, an officer in our army
wrote as fidlows* Camp, opposite
Matamoras, April 19, 1846. Our situ
ation here is an extraordinary one.—
Right in the enemy** country, actually
occupy ing their corn and cotton fields,
the people of the soil leaving their
homes, and we, with a fmall handful of
men, marching with colors flying ux
I drums beating, right under the ven
guns of one* ol their] principal cities,—
displaying the star-spangled banner, at
if in defiance, under thiir very nose,
and they, with an army twice as largf
as ours,*sit quietly down, and make not
the least resistance—not the first effort
to drive the invaders off. There is nr
parallel to it. Truly there is no paral
lel to it. Forthe army of the U. State*
was then encamped on territory which
no one can deny was doubtful territory;
for if Texas had once made a claim tc
it, Mexico claimed it too. It does not
matter wHSfther the bouudarv claimed
by Texag Extended to the Rio Grande
or not. AVas it right for our govern
ment to advance an army for the pur
pose of occupation upon this disputed
ground, while the question of boundary
was unsettled? Never would it have
dared thus to send an army into the dis
puted territory of Maine, for this would
assuredly have been a cause of war
with England. And, moreover, Texas
was annexed with no fixed boundaries:
for the joint resolution expressly pro
vides, that said State shall be formed,
subject to the adjustment of all ques
tions of boundary that mny arise with
other governments. And for more
than a hundred years had Mexico pos
sessed settlements on both banks of the
river. Her Custom-houses had never
been interfered with by the Texans,
and in the upper portion of this valley,
there were villages of thousands ol
inhabitants, who had never seen a Tex
an officer exacting any kind of sub
mission or respect. The army of tht
United States Was encamped on that
soil, which to incorporate into the Union
as a part of Texas, Mr. Benton had
declared “would be an act of direct
aggression upon Mexico, for all the con
sequences of which the United States
would stand responsible.” What could
have been expected but collision and
bloodshed
On the *26th of April, a party of
dragons attacked a superior force of
the enemy, and after losing sixteen men
were compelled to surrender. This
may be considered as the actual com
mencement of the war. On receiving
news of this event, the President
sent a message to Congress, recom
mending the appropriation of men
and money fur the war; and by an
almost unanimous vote,Congress passed
such a bill, with the assertion in its
preamble, that wav existed by the
act of Mexico.” This is the beginning
of that series of events, which, at an
incredible waste of lives and of money,
has placed the American army in the
capital of Mexico.
In reading impartially this page of
history, the impression is forced upon
the mind, that a singular spirit of blind
ness and perverse obtuseness seems to
have possessed the minds of our rulers.
They seem to have acted like men who
were under the influence of some fa
tality, so that they could net see any
way of escape, but must march on blind
fold to the pit of slaughter.
And thus docs all history open to us
the retributive justice of an overruling
Providence. It is in vain, when enter
ed upon the career of evil, to say,
Thus far. Sin must pluck on
sin,” unless there be a true repent
ance. He who would keep the rewards
of sin, must sin yet farther; and the
fatal, flitting light of corruption leads
him onward to perdition. Mr. Cal
houn, the inaster-spirit of annexation,
thinks he could have avoided the war,
satisfied with the spoils already earned
for his favorite system. He thinks
that if the army had remained at Cor
pus Christi, there would have been no
conflict.”
But Providence knows no ifs. On
ward must the mighty stream advance,
and no cunning hand can stay its pro
gress. With the cancer of slavery
feeding upon our system, this war was
inevitable. It must rush on until the
awful voice of Jehovah thunders, “Thus
far, here shall thy proud wave be
stayed.” The North, with a fatal
spirit of acquiescence, ha* submitted to
one encroachment after another upon
the spirit of freedom; and uow, floated
upon the surface, it is borue along to
share the retribution. There remains
but one way of escape. Slavery, that
hvdra, which but gains in strength from
every act of feeble opposition and tame
submission, must be slain. It is smit
ten of God with madness; it rushes on
with fatal blindness aud increasing filly.
And yet we are ail foolishly slumbering
At every' new victory of the accursed
system, some feeble cry is raised, “that
this encroaching evil must be opposed
henceforth,” and then a!I is stffl. The
Representatives from the North, to
save some little remnant of self-respect,
«lbe last moment, when resistance is
no avail, utter a feeble don’t, we
warn you;’’then,when all is over,and the
evil is consummated, join in the exulting
shout, and toast our ccuuiry, howso
ever bounded.” A war in its defence,
however iniquitous, a measure however
wrong, has but to be entered upon, and
then they pronounce it right to aid in
its completion. The assembled w
of the nation, for a party purpose, vote
what they know' to be a solemn lie.
Governors, falling into the current,
exhort the peaceful citizens to go forth
and fight thi* battle ot slavery, appeal,
to their patriotism, and lend their offi
cial influence to sanction the deeds of
blood. The ghosts of men who were
killed politically, because they dared
ta contend for what they considered
right, haunt the miserable deep of our
modern statesmen and so they dare!
nut move, or cry, or let their voice be
heard in street or council. And thus
stooping to a false and corrupting pop
ular standard, crouching with fear, they
huzza for the glories «>f our country;
lend fheir aid to furnish of men
and money; give their children to pain
through the tire of the false God of
j War; join in the exulting shout of vic
tory praise the success of our glori
ous armies, and lament that they aic
too old to join in the noble work of slay
ing Mexicans.
[to BE COVTIMED.]
From tbt Tribune.
FITBLIC LANDS.
Several bills have already been pro-|
posed to the two Houses of Congress!
respectively, purporting to contemplate
the benefit of actual settlers on the
Publie Lands, by graduating or re
ducing the price of these which have j
been longest in the market, extending!
the term of pre-emption, Btc.; but as!
yet we believe no bill has been sul>-'
milled, striking at the root of the real J
evil. The mischief is not, that settlers
snatch lands which rightfully belong to
other settlers, nor that the Government j
charges too high a price for them; but
that Speculation forestalls the settler
with regard to the choicest locations,
and presses hard upon the poor pio
neer, who is barely able to wrest a
scanty livelihood from the h< useless
patch of wilderness he has undertaken
to make a farm of. Reduce the price
to sixpence an acre, and leave the
lands open to appropriation in unlimited
quantities, and the evil now felt will be j
essentially aggravated and only the
sooner become utterly intolerable. What j
is needed is a stringent limitation of the
area of lands now public, which any
person can henceforth' purchase and
retain, whether directly of the Govern.-!
merit or at second-hand; and to this wt j
must ultimately come, if the Divine j
purpose that each man should lahoi
for- his own subsistence and eat bread
in the sweat of his own face, is not to;
be subverted here as entirely as it has
already been throughout the Old
World. No change can be effected, 1
which does not involve and effect the I
Limitation of Public Land Sales, to
actual settlers and cultivators cnlyj
though we shall welcome any change
which does not facilitate and stimulate
the ravages of Speculation. We nope;
and trust that the present Session oij
Congress will not close without wit-:
nessing some earnest and powerful en
deavor to secure the Public Land*,
henceforth to the People who wish toj
settle and cultivate them, as Mr. Smith:
of la. has already proposed. His bill,
of which notice was given some two or
three weeks since, has not yet, we
believe, been introduced. When it is,
we shall hasten to examine and pub
lish it.
From the Chicago Dcmoci at.
LAND REFORM.
To afford every American citizen ol enterprise
the n|>|.ortrii:ty ol eertiring an independent frceliold.
it si'etus to lie best to aliandon tlic idea ol’ raising a
futu'e revenue from the Public Land*.”
[Jackson'* Mttsntrr, 1532.
The age in which we live is one of
Reform and Progress. It is only the
standing water that engenders miasm
and taints the air with its death-bearing
vapor. The stream runs on clear and
limpid, until it mingles with the ocean j
which is itself constantly agitated, so
that its waters tnay be preserved pure
for the uses of this mundane sphere.
Progress is the law of life. Individ-
ually or collectively man advances from I
one degree of truth to another. By
slow degrees he perfects himself in the
art of self-government. And as the in- j
ternal bonds upon his mind and con
science become firmer and more bind
ing, the external bonds, w hich are those
of brute force and arbitrary .rules and
enactments, arc removed. Thus it will
be seen that the Rights of Man coexist 1
and are horn of his necessities—that
whatever conduces to the happiness ol 1
mankind, should not he withheld from
them.
A beneficent Providence has created j
this world: and He endowed it continu- j
ally with the power to sustain itself.— j
He also created animals upon it; and
He gives ail ofthem not only the facul-I
ty to sustain life, but the means by
which to sustain it. V\ by should it not;
be so with Man, who is the crowning l
work of His creation? Has not he also
been endowed with life, and should hi
not have the right to the means by which
to sustain it? The air we breathe was
given for the universal good; no man
has a right to bottle it up from his neigh
bor to speculate upon it. The water
that laves the earth was given for the
use ax all: no man can put it in to
dole it out af his interest or avarice
may dictate. Why should it not be so
w’ith the Earth '1 he poasrs&ion of the
two former can avail man nothing with
out the latter. If it is true that man is
endowed with an inalienable right”
to life, liberty and the pursuit of hap
piness, it is as true that he is endow
ed with the right to secure bimsel!
these blessings.
We said that by slow degrees man
perfects himself in the art of self-gov
ernment. The Pilgrim Fathers landed 1
in this country, bringing with them I lie
seeds of hatred to Feudalism, and to 1
the laws by which Feudalism was pre
served—-the laws of primogeniture and
entail. They established a new' era in
civilization— the Commercial Era 1
They imagined they found a panacea 1
for the slavery of the Old in the free- 1
d«ui by them secured to the settlers of
the New country. They imagined that 1
by abolishing the Feudal l~aws, they 1
scoured to every man a piece of land— I
a homestead, which would preserve
him from being a fugitive and a vaga-
bond upon the face ofthe earth. But 1
they saw not that the commercial ays- i
tern carried in its bosom the germ of a
wrong—a mightier than man had ever
before contended against. They saw
not that events over which man had no
control, and accidents attendant upon
the very fired m which they had abol-
WILLIAM C. >FLL, Fsanawia.
JUIt.V DICK, FaiSTxa.
WHOLE NO—IX.
would place in the hands of the
tite an engine to coerce, and in the
end ciqsh the Many, to compel them to
jubmvc their ends. This engine was
.aimtal rJ. ,C P° Wcr «*t etnet ntrat-d
wealth. 1 his stands in the ,elation to
ui T n jT m,Kra ,hat Privilege of
all k,i ds did to the Feudal. p v it the
few of the Present, make a
worse: than the feudalism ©t the Past.
Hi eftarof was/ does now, what the
power ot privilege d.d m former times.
Ibis fear of want, staring the laborer
in the face, compels him to woik at tlo
mercy of the Capitalist; at the same
time that machinery is breught to bear
to help bind his chains ir.oic firmly,
until at length he becomes the slave of
the very gold w hich he created.
1 his is a sad picture, but neverthe
less a true one. W hat has preserved
the Laborer Litheito frem being re
duced under the dominion of C apital
as is the case in England, but the waste
lands of the West But even these are
withheld from him. lie is compelled
to pay for the privilege of earning his
daily breed by lire sweat of his brow,
and thus for adding to the wealth and
prosperity of the entire country. Let
only these lands be thrown open; then
would the pauper laborer” [what a
contradiction in tcunslj of Europe, the
laborer in «ur ow n country; and in fact
all w ho desire to earn by their industry
the wages of labor, come into the pos
session of their own; and bless the God
who made the Land and gave it
not to a part, but to the whole of the
human lace. In that ease how happy
every man would be in the possession
ol a piece of land which never can Lu
wrested from him by those who lu ap
up more power to enslave, by specula
ting upon the labor of others.
The lime has come w hen the voice
of Labor must he heaid. It will not
answer now to summarily lay its peti
tion on the table. Man must in the cud
triumph, and Capital must be his slave.
The loot that the voice of the laborer is
crying in your fields, is evidence that a
firsh necessity bus established an ad
ditional right. The fact that Want and
Crime arc increasing with o stintin g
rapidity, not only in Europe but in the
dder settled States, is an evidence that
here is some thing radically defective in
he present organization of society.—
Let the remedy be applied without de
lay, ere by means which all lovers of
aider must deprecate—but must, should
all others fail, justify—the end sought
is accomplished.
So soon as the Freedom of the Pub
lic Lands, in limited quantities, shall
have been secured to actual settlers,
Lard Limitation and I Tt incstt ad Secu
rity in ti e States must inevitably fellow.
Then every man will labor on his own
land; then will the desire of the first
settlors of this continent be perfected;
and we will iiidctd bo a free and happy
people. The present dominion of Capi
tal tends to the tenunt system, under
which Republicanism is impossible.
'I his system tends to separate classes
in society; to the annihilation of the love
of country; and to the weakening of the
spirit of independence. The tenant
has no country, no hearth, no altar, nu
household g<»«l. The freeholder,on tho
contrary, is the natural support of a
free government, and it should be the
policy of Republics to multiply their
freeholders, as it is the policy of Mon
archies to multiply their tenants.” We
arc a Republic. If we desire to continue
to i us pass the public lands into the
lands of the people: let us give to those
vho cannot buy, without money and
vithout price, that which the fact of
lirth entitles them to. By this means,
ve strike at the last foothold of tho
Monty Monopoly". —The Monopoly of
he Soil.
Training or -Bloodhounds.— I Thcro
s no creature more faithful and true
han a good dog, and yet bud dogs
ire somtimea very cruel and blood
hiisty. But the worst of it is, imu
ire often worse than drgs, for they
each degs to be wnrre than they would
tfhenrite he. We will tell you of one
:asc in paitieular.
St. Domingo, one of the Wert India
islands, was held by the French, who
Missesred a great many slaves. Their
daves rebelled anddctcimim d to be free.
I hey carried on a war with their mas
ers, by which they finally obtained their
iberty. During this contest the French
rained blood h< unds to |iurUc ai d
Jevcur the negroes. In training the
i* unds to this inhuman j ursuit, they arc
ronfined <*i kennel, sparred like a cage,
ind sparingly supplied with the LlordVf
*ther animals. I iso figure of a negro,
n wieker-wcik, stuffed with hlord ami
mtrails, was occasionally exhibited in
be upper part of the cage; the deg«
trugnhd against their coufim im nl, and
is their impatience iucreasid, the i Ifigy
%as brought nearer and nearer, while
h« ir usual subsistence was gradually
liinintshed.
At length the figure was resigned to
hem—and while voracu o«iy it ant g it
ip, and devouring its cot.lt ids, thev
rere encourage d ly the t are cm of tht* ur
leepeis. Thus, their hatre d to b/a« k
nd their love to white men were af the
amc time excited. When their tramu g
ra* cotnpb te, they were rent out to the
base. The miserable tit pro hod no
neana of escape; he was heal*d down
ndtorn to pieces, bis wife and children,
erhaps, sharing his miafortuoc.
This however, was no! the lull exteid
fi the calamity. Ihe dogs frequent!*
roke loose, snd infants wet* devoured
V sn instant from the public way. Seme
mes they proceeded from the m gb
oring woods, and surprising a h«.; uiles*
twily of laborers at Ikeir simple meal,
»re the babe from its inolhi r, or dev
oured the whole party. and returned
with their jaws drenched in gore.
ADDRESS
Of the Executive Committee mi the
Western New York Anti-Slavery Society to the Abolitionists of Western
New York,
We &klre*s you as friends sod f.-llow-la
borers in a great and n«>bl 3 cause, those
strive in practice to remember those in bond*
M bound with them.” Our earnest hope, t»-
that our words inav fall on food ppro^rtxl, even
upon the hearts of th* true friend* of the op
pressed, and that rich fruit of g***! works
may spring up persevering effort, eeaselew
enerjrr, uneorapronusisg fidelity, and noble
aelf-sacrffici. We have to contend with power
ful and deep-rooted influences. Slavery ir
this land is no creature of a day, but for nvm
than two hundred year*, his be 'n sfrengrhcti
inc ks terrible power, and spreading its ruh
wider arrrf deeper until the government, th<
politics, the religion, the literature, and cvei
the soci.il habits of the people, ha\e become
aubject to its almost omnipotent sway.
Ry the solemn guaranties of the (’onstitutioi
of the I'liiidd States, tlw force of the nation i
pledged to suppress the slave insurrection
the whole country is made a hunting grouni
for the huut-’rs of m :n, *and the slaveholder i
entitled to additional political j«owct in Con
gress by ni *ans of thi thrj>fifllu» represents
lion. Thus are the whole nation, holdinj
three millions of human beings in bondage
thus arc th: Northern people giving that suj;
poitto slavery, without which it could n<
for a si.iglc year—nay, scarce for a day extai
and yet, the great »uaje,of lias |*’opU*)»r*» eith*
prepared to fulfil these guaranties to the full
new of the sp.rit and the exactness of th
letter, or else ig.iorant of th hr terrible impoi
and giving l!t .\o a blind, but yet eff.-ctua
a’lpjiort.
With and therr* an exception so rare
as to nuke good the rule, the pnipit is dum
in regard to th’s great national sin. Th
l’reabyterifla* and Baptists renew their fellow
ship, anti ke ;p bright the chain of c mcotd
clasping fondly its links wet with the blood c
the poor victims of their Southern brethren i
the Lord. The Episcopal Methodists falsul
claim to be free from the guilty brotherhood
wli lie slaveholders, and even slave trad erf
who coin gold from the tears of mothers, knet
at their communion tallies yet there ar
signs that the voices of the true hearted, ar
sending dismay amid the Pharisees of th
rwneteentb century. T*hr Warding cry erf “N
Union with‘Slaveholders,” is Heard, and it
echoes rise ainid the warm debates on thi
M vexed question,” in the Synods and Confer
cnccs, where the leaders in the modern Israe
Convene. When the church shall cease to
land the immense weight of its influence to
sanction jobbery, and crime, and blood,” then
and not until then, ought we too cease ou
w arning and rebuke.
The great political organizations are, a!
ever, servile, false, and hollow-hearted—uni
ted with slaveholders, their course must cvei
bo one of miserable subserviency to the slave
ocracy, or still more miserable and wholly
useless compromise between Slavery am]
Freedom,by which the people will be deceiv
ed—freedom never gained a foot of ground
but lose all by treachery and false-hearted ness
Slavery is law less: it has annexed foreign ter
ritory, declared war, engaged this guilty na
tion in a career of rapine and robbery, am
trampled upon all laws, human and divine
that stand in its way and yet is gaining a]
that is necessary of men a-id monies, to can
on its atrocious schemes. One great part
giving these measures an open unblushinj
support, defending their rightfulness an
legality—another crying out illegal,” un
constitutional,” and vet granting money
the“ sinews of war,” because it dare not d
otherwise the leaders caring-less for humani
tv—nav, less for their own abused and injure
manhood, than for the favor and alliance t
th" 1 pimps of slavery.
The Liberty party, having for its professc
object to proclaim Liberty through all th
land, by the magic power of the ballot-box
links itself with tha other political parlies, i
perpetuating a Union, which has become
guilty league for tho preservation of the sun
•f all yillanies. The leading men of the pai
ty assembled in National Convention at Bui
fdo, but a few weeks since, dared nntdeclar
in a public resolution, as many had done a
home, that the Constitution of the Unite*
States was an Anti-Slavery document, force*
by paltry considerations of politicalexpedienc;
to be silent, as a party in regard to what the
deemed of great importance as individuals.
Such a miserable course is no matter t
surprise to us, fur it only shows that a grot
moral enterprise must inevitably become coi
rupted by b> ing merged in the struggles of
political party, tending as every such part
must i.i this country, to compromise and cm
ruption. We rely not upon such measure*
our firm trust t» in the power of Truth, sjx
k?n without concealment or compromise.-
Oar wish, our hope, our expectation is, to r*
generate the corrupt heart of the nation.—Ot
motto is“ No Union with Slaveholders,” n;
tional, poliltical or ecclesiastical. We kn«v
that the Union is the bond, that holds thrr
million slaves wc knew, that so long as tl:
people of the free States uphold the weak ari
of th-.i slaveholder, a* they must; or so long j
they maintain this Union, that oppression wi
rule, and the blood of the oppressed will 1
upon the heads of the w hole people. You ai
8* well aware t»f all tliese things, as wo c:
be, therefore, wc ask you to join us, and d
Ktand in tha name of God and humanity,
peaceable dissolution of the Union, tmstir
fiat the guilty oppressor would tremble at 1:
weakness and'give freedom to the slave, rat
or than to dissolution, and try to ho
the strong-handed bondman w ithout the aid
the Northern arm. Knowing that if f
South ch »«e to make tf»e hazardous expe
incut, tho days of a tdav,-holding euufodera
would soon Is- numbered. Kuo* mg too, fi
well as you all must know that the Union
a bitter mockery, a coalition in w inch Have
from* and Freedom loses all, which must so
inevitably perish by its own wickedness.
Our great desire is, to spread light throuj
the land, for W* belie'* that when the peoj
see cUarly how the nation is pledged to su
port tb- infernal sy«*-to; when they lea
that so long th« vats and futile effort
made m pup tuale F/ee<W and .Slavery t
I’., ijn- Art of 1795, tfo yk*v«dinl.W ma> hi
mil, w idwjnt *K«IU i»r<c« if am kind, M-iw-1
Hit' ll- tw- tind hint, uii'l ut ttw Ir-ivtirr*. (I
lima- ip Si- I,) lilac linn twtoir any J until t
tttr IV.i'-t i.i ti#» v,i)o,n 1* may pri-Jrt."
Joy* t nr.
get her, that slavery must rule with ml oft
iron; and bm though not least* when th»y
begin to appreciate lie depth of woe, and
misery, and degradation, the wife, tie groans,!
the scourging** the Atbunuuiiitiag, brutalising
tie horrible Ucctitiatmcza, w hich
are—not the abuse*, hut tha necrsrtsry aty
loci liable accompaniments of American Sla-
very, a burnt of generous indignation will be'
heard, the Slaveholder 1-toked upon aa the low
est, the inoat degraded nnorg men, and all
support, all fellowship be dented him. Is not
the work a good one Is it not worth lafcir,
long and unwearied, sacrifices constant arid
abundant! j
c are about to open an Anti-.Slaverv
Office in this city, where- a supply of valuable
Antt-Slaverr works will be kept for sale, and
a variety of Anti-Jstevery newspapers, frt
for the perusal of all, where our friends from
the surrounding country can gain information
in regard to the progresa of our cause, and
supply themselves with books and pamphlets.
Wc hiil thi establishment of the North
Star in thw city, a new and ably conducted
Anti-Slavery paper, edited by Frederick
D.mglass and M. R.Dclany, as a powerful aid
to our cause, and earnestly hope its circulation J
may be extensive.
Wa wmild also comm ’nd the National Anti-.
Slavery Standard, the official organ of the!
American Anti-Slavery Society, published in I
New York the Liberator, of Ronton, edited
l U J Win. Lloyd Gartison, the fearless pioneer
in our cauac the Pennsylvania Freeman, in
Philadelphia; and the Anti-Slavery Rugle, in
Salem,Ohio, as papers holding up a high stand,
ard, and promulgating true principles and!
measures.
i< We wish to mnd lecturing agents through,
Western New York, who shall spread Anti-
Slavery intelligence, obtain subscribers for the j
North Star, address the people, and stir them
up to new vigor in the work. Jos. C. Hatha
j way and Chas. L. Keruond are already en
gaged for the coming year. J.C. Hathaway.;
j. a resident in this vicinity, is known as a well
tried Abolitionist, a man of high ability. He
is appointed the General Agent of our Soci
ety. C. L. Remond, of Salem, Mass., isj
one who has always been faithful and active
j in the work. “A noble man with sable.
brow his withering rebuke and touching
'I narratives of the wicked prejudice against his
race have stung many a guilty conscience,
and called the tear to many an eve.
The field is wide, and we wish to sustain i
both these efficient laborers and others if pos- J
silile. Let us rouse to a full sense of our great re-1
j sponsibility let t:s remember that the heart of]
the slave leaps w ith joy when we arc acting,and
sinks in deep despair w hen w e are idle. Now j
is especially the time for strong, earnest ef-,
fort. A bloody war of conquest is raging—a
war to open new marts where self-styled
Democrats can sell their human chattels. The,
groans of wounded men, the shrieks of viola- j
j ted women, the roar of the deadly cannonade,
the rattle of musketry, and the fiendish j
shouts of the trained bands of hireling mur
derers, employed by this wicked Union to do
slavery’s work, rise up from the desolated val- j
leys ot Mexico. The people shout loud;
praises to the leaders in this horrid crusade, j
Let us, too, be up and doing; not with the,
blood-stained sword, or gory bayonet—no,
I nobler, mightier weapons arc ours—even the
j mild arms of Truth and Love, made mighty
by the living God.” Shall we have yourearn
-1 (-st aid and co-operation to earn- out the ob- j
jeets we contemplate
We rely upon it. Our agents must be sup
ported we rely upon you to do it. They are j
l, efficient, sell-sacrificing, and ably furnished
for the work. Our Anti-Slavery office must i
bs kept open. To do all this work, monev
is absolutely necessary. Will you, can you
■j withhold it!
M e ask you, as those who arc ready to do;
all possible for the sighing of the poor and
needy.-for the deliverance of yourselves and
I your friends from the yoke of a relentless
slave-holding oligarchy—to contribute liberally
according to your several abilities—to give
I I joyfully, earnestly, as a matter of mingled
pleasure and duty. All contributions we;
would ask to be handed in as soon as possible,
to Henry Bush, No. 34 Exchange street, in
this city, Treasurer of the Society, or left at
our Anti-Slavery Office, No 25, Buffalo street,
j secoud story, under the office of the North
Star.
1 We close by asking you, one and all, men
and women, to rebuke the sin of slavery,
and scatter the truth bv fire-side aud field-!
side.
f Ours is a glorious war fore. Ours w ill be a
t great and glorious victory, if we will but per
severe to the end. God and truth are with us.
i Our strength is in fidelity to our great princi
r pics. In the w ords of one of the poets of
humanity—
1 YavrT-Mrrngtl)o *eil for tin- triitl,rnmr together;
I'm on your iiunte*s for the moral tight,
Viiil with tin- 11 -sjiiug cf your McavenU Father,
.Maintain thi: Kiuht
_ i
Signed, on behalf of the Committee,
r GILES B. STEBBINS,
C’or. See.
f Roc Hester, Feb. 22d. 1848.
_
(XF The Auti-SLivery Stanford will piratic copy.
MAR.
s
The following adc ice was given by Dr.
Benjamin Rush, an eminent American physi
cian and philanthropist, who (hod about thitrv
e years ago
n “In order to impress more deeply the
..i minds of the citizens of the United States with
the blessings of peace, bv contrasting th*»m
with the evils of war, kt the following in-
S scription be painted on the sign which is
8 placid over th dot*r of the war office at
Washington, mz
d office for butchering the human spe
cies.
A widow and oiqihan-maktng office.
ie; A wooden bone-making office,
j. A wooden leg-making office.
v An office for creating public and private
vice**.
Ail office for creating public de.at.
is An office tor creating famine.
v An office for creating pt-sulcutud dis
cases.
i An office for creating poverty, and for
the d wlrucuon of liberty and national ha*>-
h piness.
le I» the lobby let there be painted repre
sentations ttf the common instruments of
F. death; also human ukuik, broken bones,
n hospitals crowd#*d witii sick and wounded
bs idlers, villages on fire, ship, sinking in the
H ocean, rivers dv l with blowl, and exten
sive plains without it tree or fence, any
other o’.iji-ct hut the rums of deserted farm
j hotlM-K.
'J; Above this gnuip of wsful figures, let tl»e
,i i following words I*-: mseru-d in r.-d characters,
I»> r-j*rc*ent btunau blood
S \TH'> VL l LOKT r
THE NORTH STAR
SOCHEiTEH, CEBRUARV U*
COLORED CHURCHES.
We perceive by a letter in the Springfield
Jmette of 15th February, written by a ed
ited minister is that place, that oar views oa
his subject have given riae to considcraUv
’xcitcment among our colored brethren in that
egkm. We are glad of it, and hope it wiR
rooiiaue to agitate them mitil they shall ie
tve at sound conclusion*ui regard to U- The
[Ucstton of,separate religious organizations
md places of worship for colored peraona, is
ui important one, and ought to claim the at~
ention and consideration of the clear-sighted
tnd reformatory portion of our people, and all
;hoac who are interc-stcd for our welfare. Ii
ive have been the means of awakening a
ipirit of inquiry into this subject, we feci that
ive have been instrumental in doing much for the
improvement and elevation of the oppressed,
tnd advancing the cauac of pure religion, in
this proud and scornful nation.
We do not wish to alarm Mr. Collins, but
we must tell him that b:s craft is in dangeT.—
The question raised, is one that must be
discussed. The spirit of equal human broth
erhood and the oneness of the human family,
is abroad, and will test the sbundness of even
colored churches. The questions which in
telligent colored men feel bound to ask the
advocates of separate religious organizations,
are nor to be evadod, nor ridiculed, nor winked
out of sight, by priestly cunning and appeals
to prejudice.
Whatever may have been the motive for
establishing colored churches, or whatever
may have been the good resulting from their
establishment, the time has come when it vs
quite proper to inquire into their character,
and to pronounce upon their good or evil
effects. No considerations of a personal na
ture shall prevent us from speaking our senti
ments on this subject, or any other connected
with our progress in moral, religious and so
cial improvement. We have no party to
serve, or sectarian ends to gain. If the col
ored people cannot take the North Star be
cause it speaks of their inconsistencies, as
well as the meanness of their oppressors, why
then it must go ou without their support —for
speak we must and will. That white minis
ters and churches, linked as they are with the
blood-stained church and evangelical man
stealers of the South, should seek to turn ofl
our assaults, and shelter themselves from our
rebukes, is natural and to be expected but
that a colored man, one of the oppressed and
despised of our land, should take tip his pen
lo write for a pro-slavery paper, in defence of
those churches and ministers, is painfully
tmazing. What can be the motive of such a
man Can he be sane, and if so, can he be
lonesl Below’ is an extract from the letter ot
Vlr. Collins in the Springfield Gazette, copied
’rom the Republican
But Mr. Douglass did net seem satisfied
*'ith laboring to prove the'Sntire corruption
>f the American churches. He strove to
discourage the formation of colored church
es, stigmatizing them as negro pews on a
higher scale,% and calling in question the mo
tives of those who would encourage such
churches.
Now, would the gentleman allow none of
hfo own complexion, to minister at the altar
of God AY ould he annihilate the ministry
that labors especially to elevate and improve
his brethren Suppose the eighteen colored
churches in Philadelphia were to be disbanded
and merged into w hite congregations —then
their present ministers must cease their min
istrations, or lie settled over white congre
gations, which is impossible. There never
w ere but two cases of the kind in this country,
and expediency seems to dictate the propriety
of selecting a w hite minister w here the major
ity in the parish are white. Cannot an honest
mind at orce the perfect propriety of a
colored minister ministering to people of his
own kind Is it reason to argue that there
should not be a common interest and sym
pathy between minister and people 1 Is good
to by gained by w erking against nature
Ihink not that wc form a separate church,
because wc have not confidence in the good
will of our while brethren. Their aid is cor
dia ly welcomed. But we prefer an organi
zation most natural and congenial with
nur own tastes and feelings, believing that
thereby we shall secure a higher degree of
self-culture in all our social and moral re
lations.”
The churches and ministers, and pro-slavery
press, will probably keep silent on the sub
ject while they can have a black minister to
defend them. He can do for them what they
are unable to do for themselves —his colored
skin seems to them a protection from the
shafts of Anti-Slavery rebuke. They un
doubtedly look upon him with about the same
emotions of pleasure with which a slaveholder
looks upon a contented slave—one who would
not leave massa” for the world. YVe shall
not spare Mr. Collins on account of his color
we ask no favors on account of ours, and wc
shall grant none on account of his.
He says w c were 11 not satisfied with lalorinp
to prove the entire corruption of the American
Churches This was very criminal in bn,
regard but, worse yet, we strove to discour
age the formation of colored churches—stig
matizing them as negro pews on a higliet
scale. Y\ T e plead guilty to the charge. \Yt
do ortoinlt/ regard than as n'gro pnes, on t
higher and larger scale. IUAof is a
prtc f It is this a part of a house of wen
ship assigned especially to colored people, ot
the ground that colored people are offcnsiTi
to white people, and should be separate fron
them. YVliat is a colored church A ply
of worship especially assigned to colored per
sons, and entirely separate from w hite per
sons. In what does it differ from the 41 negn
pew Simply in location and ditnension
there is no moral difference between them.—
YY’egire it as our deliberate conviction, tha
separate religious organizations, and 44 negn
pews” for the especial and exclusive use o
colored persons, originated in most unhol
ard unnatuial prejudices; that they are
mere counterpart of colonization, mnd that ihei
existence is a serious injury to tlie best inter
ests of the colored people, at variance mitl
the glorious cause of liberty and human equal
ity and so far from being in accordance whl
the will or purposes of our Heavenly Father
they are diametrically opposed to the spirit an*
precepts of the gospel of Christ. Then
view s we shall maintain and defend, at bom
and abroad, offend or pleaae whom it may
among white oppressors or colored aemlcs.
Mr. Collins says we railed in question thi
motives of thoss (meaning, we suppose, whit
persons) who would encourage rurh churches
.M<»t certainly wc do. YY> rail in questim
tbs motifs of any white tmm% whn wontt
help plans ns safsils of awy portion of tbn
Christian chamh on ■ni'iisl of the color of
omr skin. Aa In what Mr. Collins mys abottt
■flawing any of oar own n—plnhm to mm>
Mtisr si the ahsr of God, tha qaestim is im
pertinent. We are in favor of mistoten who
arc really qualified to tearb, bet their color be
what it may. We look upon color as being no
part of a suitable qualification of a Christian
minister—« white minister is as good as a
black one for us. Mr. (foUins asks, 44 cannot
an honest mind see at once the perfect propri
ety of a colored minister ministering to people
of his «n kind f” We answer, that when
Mr. Collins can show that colored people need
moral and religious instruction differing from
that of other people, his question will be in
point. YVe bclieTe in the doctrine that “God
lias made of one blood all natioos of men, for
to dwell upon all the face of the earth,” and
in the essential oneness of the human family,
and that all men are brothers. We know
nothing, and care nothing for the artificial mnd
conventional distinctions set up by wicked
men. Until white ministers can be as deeply
interested for the salvation of the souls of
black men, as they appear to be for those of
white men, we shall regard them as liars and
hypocrites; and if black men care any more
for llie salvation of black men than white,
they hare mistaken their call to 44 go into all
the world and preach the gospel to evert
creature.”
Mr. Collins says, he “prefers organizations
most natural and congenial to his oicn tasted 1
So does Henry Clay, when he would hare us
all sent out of the country —so does every
1 negro hater that objects to colored and white
children going to the same school; —so does
every steamboat company which denies the
equal rights of colored persons on board their
vessels —so says the haughty hotel keeper,
who spares from his table a respectable col
ored traveller when he asks for accommoda
tion —so say the rail road companies that
maintain distinction on account of color, in the
use of their cars; —so say the white lyceums
and literary associations, which exclude per
sons on account of their complexion so
say the white pro-slavery and slavcholding
churches which will not bow at the com-
I munion table with the despised black man
and last, not least, so says the recreant Rev
erend Mr. Collins, who, though a black man
himself, is willing, for the sake of gaining
the good will of his oppressors, to play the
part of a clerical sycophant. Shame on
him!
It has long been the desire of our enemies
to deepen and widen the line of separation
between the white and colored people of thus
country, and to establish the conviction that
nature required this separation. To accom
plish this, all sorts of schemes have been re
sorted to—rco’ored temperance societies, col
ored schools, colored odd fellows, and colored
churches, have been encouraged, by the very
men who hate us, and wish to get rid of us.
Some of these institutions we have deemed
necessary, in our present circumstances, ex
cluded as wc are from the like institutions
among the whites but we have ever looked
forward to the time when it would be our duty
to abandon all complexional institutions, and
go for equal and universal brotherhood, and
demand admission to all institutions enjoyed
by other men. That time, in our humble
judgment, has now conic, at least in the
Northern States of this Union. We would
to God, that on the very next Sabbath, every
colored church could be abandoned, and their
members make their way to the white church
es from which they cams out, and demand
admission on equal terms with white persons.
•Such a demonstration would do more to open
the eyes of the public to the character of our
wrongs, than any other which we can now
think of. YVe also believe that, with the’
light which sixteen years’ aeitation has
thrown on this subject, the example of Eu
rope, anti the word of God in their hands, the
churches would not dare exclude us from the
house of prayer, or proscribe us when once
admitted. Come, brethren, let us be men,
equal men—Christians and equal Christians
let us show that we know- our rights, and
mean to assert them. Their assertion will
do us good, and will do our white fellow
countrymen no harm, though we should test
their Christianity. Come, let us try it. YVe
shall discuss this subject further in our next.
ITT* In reply to the letter of Mr. Walker,
which will be found in another column, we
have only to say, that we wrote down the
sum collected, as it was announced at the
time by Mr. Green, one of the Financial
Committee. We regret that our friend should
feel disturbed on account of our mention of
his destitute condition. Our readers, bow-j
ever, will see that the matter is made very.
little better by the letter of Mi. Walker him
self. Our friend takes exception to our say
ing that his discourse was wade up chiefly of i
statements respecting his own sufferings in
behalf of the cause. Now, if our readers
will refer to the letter from West Winfield, I
they will see that tlicre is scarcely a shadow 1
of difference between our statement and Mr.
I Walker's own. The statement on this point,
to which he objects, reads thus: “Mr
Walker's discourse was th'vfiy maJt vp of
his own sufferings in behalf of the cause,
and exhorting others to follow his example.*' j
Now, in what do we differ* Why, in this:
Mr. Walker thinks he said little, and we
thought he said much about his sufferings in!
behalf the cause.
As to the stateim nt respecting the sad
condition in which the family of our friend
wees living at Plymouth, we are glad to
have ;he picture in any measure relieved, as
it now seems to be, by the letter of our friend
Walker. If we have in any degree misre
presented our friend, it was by no means in
tentional on our part. We have no doubt,
that the impression made upon our mind, by
the speech of our friend st West Winfield,
was the same as that made on the minds of
nine tenths of the audience.
New State*. —Besides the new States to
be carved out of Mexico, the Washington
correspondent of the Charleston Courier states
that the Committee on Territories will doubt
less propose four new Territorial Govern
ments in our present limits—namely, Ne
braska, west of Missouri; Itska, north of
Wisconsin; Mineaota, west of the same; and
and another Territory running ft* the extreme
Northwestern boundary.
gemmit smith** uhd.
TltMWviof Isofpenoaiin reported in
the lMteomherefthe Ham’s Horn, niatarf
tag fle quit the city of New York, far their
fanaeia FVnUb and Kseex Counties, the ht*
ter pert of nejfl May. The oecupatioa of those
bads, will form an era in the history of the
free colored men in this State. We should
like to be among the first to occupy the wilder*
ness, and strike the first blow toward making
it blossom like the rose. We were very much
pleased to hear of a good colored woman, who
said, “she regretted that Mr. South, had
confinrd his donations of land to men,** she
said, that had she been included, she would
hare readily commenced to dear and occupy
the land
Samuel Johnson, No. 60 East Broadway,
Lewis Johnson, do do
Harriet Johnson, do do
Thomas Wilson, No. 164 Barrow Street,
Moses Wiboo, do do
Susan Wilson, do do
Sarah Wilson, do do
Robert Wilson, No. 108 Barrow Street,
Sarah Wilson, do do
George W. B. Wilson, No. 48 Grand St.
William Bundav, Centre Street,
Darid Thorringtoo, Mulbery Street,
Samuel Drummonds, No. 88 Varirk St.
Samuel B. Drummonds, do do
Rhoda Drummonds, do do
Mary Dmmmonds, do do
James Ronalds, No. 43 Oliver Street,
Catharine Kunalds, do do
Alexander Gordon, Williamsburgh,
Matilda Gordon, do
W. A. Smith, York Street,
Isaac Smith, da
Sarah Smith, do
Julia Smith, do
Mary Smith, do
Richard Nelson,
Knot* Nelson,
Thomas Washington,
Abner Nelson,
Rebecca Nelson,
Ezekinl It. Smith, No. 306 Second St.
John C. Smith, do do
Mary Smith, do do
Sarah E. Smith, do do
Maria M. Smith, do do
Benjamin Degrader, Sheriff Street,
Mrs. Dcgruder, do
Charles Thompson, Thomas Street,
Alexander Roach, Dominick Street.
WAR WITH MEXICO.
The rumors of peace with Mexico, all
seem to end in rumor. To our mind, all
hopes of peace are based on the most shallow
apprehension of the character of the ruling
power in this country. The present unholy
war is not the accident of a day, but the re
sult of long years of national transgression.
Pride and ambition, when once in the full
possession of a nation's heart, and roused to
action, cannot easily be expelled, by means
this side of national ruin. We are a ruined
people. We have given ourselves up to the
blind spirit of mad ambition. The war will
be carried on. The bones of many more
American citizens must be added to. the
thousands now bleaching on the plains of Mex
ico. The slaughter of Mexicans must be
continued, and the government of that country
annihilated, before this wicked war can cease.
Some hopes of peace have been predicated on
our national lore of money; but glory has no
time for monetaiy considerations, especially
while the idea of making Mexico pay for her
own invasion, can be held out to blind the eyes
of the American people. While we can
make the Mexican government pay our sol
diers for invading her territory, and blowing
out the brains of her citizens, no rational
prospect' of a peace with that nation can be
predicated on our fears of a national debt. It
is impossible to induce the people of this
country to feel or to flunk of either the ex
penso or wickedness of this war, unless they
are brought to their senses by a direct tax—
and this is out of the question. The Whigs
are opposed to direct*taxation, and the Demo
crats arc in favor of a vigorous prosecution of
the war, and the people arc intoxicated with
military glory peace, therefore, for the pres
ent, cannot take place. Slavery, treachery,
and mad ambition, are at the head of the gov
ernment, in the person of James K. Polk;
and the means of checking them, are
naught. We can only bear our testimony,
clear oar own skirts, and await the catas
trophe of our national crimes. What that
will be, is known only to the Most High, the
Sovereign Ruler of the Universe. But what
ever it may be, our duty will have been
done; and a righteous God will save those
who have done their duty and put their trust
in him.
“THE RAM’S MORN.”
A recent number of this paper contains an
article, from the pen of its Editor, on the
divisions in the Anti-Slavery ranks, with some
of which we agree, but from most of which
we dissent. We deem the article unfortunate,
indiscreet, ungrateful, untruthful, and mis
chievous. No one can regret more than we
do, the unhappy divisions among Abolition-;
i&ts. They are constant grief to us; but
to class all the various parties aad divisions
together, under one general condemnation,
without any regard to the causes which sepa
rated them, is a most unjust mode of treating
the subject, and in this opinion we think the
Editor of the Ram's Horn will agree on fur
ther reflection. We can see no good reason
for such an article, and are at a loe3 to divine
the motive which led to its publication. We
copy the following extracts as fair specimens
of the tone of the whole article:
But alas! the time came when these
friends of the slave, who had united for such
a high and noble object, were divided into
parties, and instead of laboring to overthrow
slavery and prejudice, they are striving with
all their might to prop up their parties and
isms. And now we behold liberty Party,’
liberty League, old organisation, new or
ganixation, and we know not how many mom
titles; and each of these parties must of
course have their big men, and these men
J must be supported. Thousands of dollars
J must be raised every year to support these
i parties. Mark you, this money is used to
support these parties, not to benefit the colored
man.
The charge that monies are rained to sup
port these parties, and their big men, and
not to advance the cause of the colored man,
to our mind, is a most ungrateful calumny.—
We are pained to be compelled to apeak thus
of one we esteem so highly as we have ever
done the Editor ofJto*‘Rams Horn.”
i “Why nJFsome colored man re
reiving a salary of a thousand dollars a year
i from some of these parties; Whv are not
colored wn employed as editors of snu-sta
very papers 1 Why do not abolitionists help
support the newspapers published hjr colored
men
V color was tha only qoalifastofon far re
oarvisg a salary of a thousand dsftara a year,
to for editing an Astt-Slavery paper, the fore
gofog questions aught possibly be pertinent
At present, they only reveal to os an unenvia
ble state of oand on the part of oar old friend.
We had in landed to my more oo this subject,
but hoping that the article is merely an out
break of fading, resulting from disappoint
ment, and which will be repented of, when
success shall smile upon the 44 Ram's Horn,” j
we leave the matter where it now
ENGLAND AND MILITARY
DEFENCE.
The friends of peace in England have been
roused to life and activity by the recent letter
of the Duke of Wellington, calling for in
creased military defences of that country.—
ir
'"J •pmied meetings, opposing ibis new
effort to increase the burdens of the people,!
have been held in various places, and from all
appearances, the measure will meet with de
cided and successful opposition among the
people of that country. At a meeting in the
Tower Hamlets, presided orer by our friend
and the world's friend, George Thompson,
M. P., Elihu Burritt made the following state
ments, which are well calculated to awaken
manful opposition to the present mischievous
measure for increasing the military power of
England, and all other countries whose people
take time to think
“Mr. Elihu Burritt regretted to see that the
measures which they were met to discuss j
had been agitated in this country, because if
England began to increase her military cstab
lishnients, other nations would be likely to
follow her example. He had calculated that
the workingman had paid £7,000,000,000 ol
taxes since the peace of 1815, as it was call
jed; and since 1801* the people of England
j had expended more by £450,000,000 than
the total exports from this mighty world of
industry. All governments were too ready to
act upon the old Roman maxim of divide and
govern; and the great brotherhood of the
people had been subjugated by setting them
against each other in blood-stained fields of
battle. During the last 700 vears, England
had been at war with France for £O6 of those
years; and the expenses w hich they occa
sioned would purchase every acre in the king
dom at £l4 an acre. Mr. Ilurritt then read
a fraternal address w hich had been sent by the
people of Havre to the people of Southamp
ton, and said that the estimates for the French
army in 1848 were considerably less than they
had been in 1847, whfch was a proof that
France was not preparing for war.”
Black Laws of Ohio. —We are indebted
to Hon. A. H. Lewis, of Ohio, for valuable
State documents, relative to the Black I*aws,
which a Whig legislature have refused to
repeal. Our friend Jenkins has also for
warded some additional facts, for these wc
are indeed grateful, and shall soon favor our
readers with the substance thereof.
Joshua R. Giddings was the solitary
no, on the adoption of the resolutions by the
House of Representatives, voting gold medals
to Generals Scott and Taylor.
Lake Erie Open, —The Steamer United
States left Buffalo last week with a full load
of passengers and freight. There is scarcely
a probability that the lake will close again
this winter.
Progrf.ss of Ohio. —Forty-five years ago,
the entire value of the assessed property of
all kinds, of tho state of Ohio, did not exceed
forty-two millions of dollars. Last year it
was $409,897,379 —a tenfold increase in less
than half a century.
POPULATION OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
—There arc in the Empire State, 5,800
taverns, 253,000 farmers, 21,000 merchants,
13,000 manufacturers, 125,000 mechanics,
3,500 lawyers, 4,000 doctors, and 4,300
preachers of the gospel.
Incendiary Fire. —The colored people's
meeting-house near Eikton, Md., was burned
down a short time since. It was the w ork of
an incendiary, as there had been no fire in it
for a week previous.
Insurance. —An act to enable married wo
men to effect insmanae on their lives, has
been passed in the lower branch of the Rhode
Island Legislature, and referred to the Judi
ciary Committee in the Senate.
Elihu Burritt has collected his 44 Stray
Leaves;” and they are published in London
by Gilpin, in a shilling volume, under the
title of Sparks from the Anvil.”
Peace and War. —Herodotus makes the
oracle at Delphos utter this morsel of wisdom,
which may be a lesson to the present age
44 Peace is better than war since, in peace
children bury their fathers, but in war, fathers
bury their children.”
Astronomical Discovery. —lt is stated
that the astronomers of Pulkova have ascer
tained the existence of a third satellite of the
planet Uranus.— Athenaeum.
Runaway Slaves. Few persons who
are not acquainted with the operations of tfie
underground railroads, are aware of the num
ber of runaway slaves who annually reach
this city from the South. On remarking to a
gentleman familiar with these matters, that
there were a gTeat many persons in Boston
who had the look of Southern runaway slaves,
he stated that probably one hundred or more
of this class of persons arrived m this city
almost every year. Many of them are pro
vided for in the city, and others, after a while,
proeecd toward Canada. —Boston Trat.
Yes; and many of these runaways who,
the slaveholder would have us believe, can*
not take care of themselves, are now found
to be, (many of them) among the most indus
trious and enterprising of our Northern citi
zens. They evidently are more effectively
stimulated by Mr. Cash than Mr. leash.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W« lave received a valuable letter from ear
friend James W. Rudolph. It w of the riftu
lone sa it sdhject of the National Press project. 1
We hepr his vir we fairly represent the greet am
of ear colored fcflow-eitiaeno ia A Usury. The 1
aeansr we prawn oarwlvM worthy of what wa si- j
ready poaaess ia the way of paper■ devued la ear
internal, the aaeasr milk ear frieade be diapaacd to
J. J., flnrags, Illinois.—This friead has oar
thanks far his camssaaicatiao of Feb. 4. Senas of
the facts have been anticipated by other eoneepead
eats; hat we haps to profitby then a*.
H. W. F.* Lowell, Hus.—Fasar sf Ufa fast,
received; we *hal have urn extract far the Star.
8. D. F. aril pnhahly appear arxt week.
mm. feaersnd. Quite eat waging.
C#XK V9ICATIONS*
Nkw Bedford, Feb. 15, '4B.
Dear Nell :—Last Sunday afternoon and
Evening, we had Ante-Slavery meetings, and
two admirable lectures from Dooglam. I
have been requested to send you some account
of them, aad cheerfully comply.
New Bedford has a widely spread fame is
an Anti-Slavery town. There are few towns
upon which more and efficient Anti-Slavery
labor has been bestowed. It is true the effect
has been greatly to break up pro-slavery feel
ing, remove prejudice against the cause, aad
liberalize the public mind. Very mueh yet
remains to be done to arouse the hearts and
actively interest the sympathies of the peoplo
in earnest efforts to break every yoke. In a
population of sixteen thousand, there are
twelve hundred colored people, of whom
three-quarters are from the Southern house
of bondage. All these find sympathy and a
home here and a more orderly, industrious
and well-to-do class of people cannot be found
in any community.
It was here that Douglass, in his flight from
his oppressors, stopped and found rest. Here
he found friends, a 44 local habitation and a
"•roc.” Here he attended the first Anti-
Slavery Meeting, where were gathered earn
est women and men, whose hearts beamed
with sympathy for God's poor, giving them
lipe a fire of eloquence that aroused the sla
very-crushed energies of his noble nature, and
the man was truly bom.
The announcement of Douglass' name foi
an address, is enough to secure a large turn
out. His address on Sunday afternoon was
delivered to a large audience. He spoke of
the corruptness of the national character, as
indicated by the annexation of Texas, for
the extension, the war with the Mexican Re
public, for the re-establisment of slavery—the
love of military glory—the spirit of conquest
that possesses the American heart. A few
years since and it was thought impossible to
get us into a war. But the voice of slavery
is for war. At the command of slavery, the
nation precipitates itself into a war with its
neighbor, a weak and misruled State, and to
sustain the war, pours out its treasures and
blood like water, in the face of Heaven,
shouting 44 our country, right or wrong.”—
We have done this. Armed with unright
eousness, wc are warring with the Almighty.
Shall we succeed No no We may
seem to succeed but victory will prove de
feat at last, and be made the instrumentality
by which this proud nation shall be brought
low. Our etatcMT.cn may eloquently assert,
44 it is our destiny the press catch up and
echo the words from one end of the nation to
the other; the pulpit almost universally, bv
its silence, tacitly consent to, or by iin
prayers attempt to sanctify the unholy thing;
but it is blasphemy. Wc have entered upon
our career the end is not vet. The prophetic
spirit of the age, as it bids us listen to the
voices of the old nations, points ns to the re
sult and need have we to tremble for our
country when we reflect that God s justice
cannot always sleep.”
lie spoke of the Colonization scheme of
the great meeting lately held in Washington
city, at which Mr. Clay, the great representa
tive and exponent of colonization, delivered
an address. Douglass examined sonic of ihe
arguments of Mr. Clay, in a powerful manner;
showed their w eakness and injustice, and by
referring to many acts and words in his life,as
well as by quoting parts of his address, lifted
off the covering of cant and pretended philan
thropy, with which Mr. Clay knows so well
how to dress up and give an air of sanctity to
the whole system, exposing it to tha view—a
morally diseased and hideous creature, God
less and from beneath. We could have ex
claimed, 44 away with it from the face of the
earth I could not help wishing then, that
Mr. Clay and Douglasscould be permitted,on
equal terms, to discuss this question, before
the nation, at W ashington. hat a specta
cle A negro, and recently a slave, debating
with the 44 Demosthenes of the nation,” a
subject one of the most important before the
country. Believing thrice is he armed that
hath his quarrel just, and he but naked,
though locked up in steel, whose conscience
with injustice is corrupted”—no matter for
Mr. Clay’s advantages in education, age, ex
perience and position—l should not fear or
the result.
Years ago,” said lie, Mr. Garriscn
exposed colonization to us. Since then, iis
whole conduct has but corroborated his judg
ment. It is our deadly enemy we shall not
obey its wishes, but shall do that which Mr.
Clay 4 wishes* us not to do we shall stay Acre.
in our country, identified with the slave, la
boring to obtain our rights and his, and we
shall secure them. Through the last ten
years are strewn the evidences of the past,
the tokens of our fotiue success. The hand
of Providence is with, and guides us; crusls
us to the earth, and we rise again try to
starve us, and we grow strong and vigorous
close up your hearts, legislate against us, an«t
try to make us hate the land of our birth,
and we love it tiie more. You may try to
keep us low, ignorant and in the dark but
the light is shining all around to it, though,
slowly, yet sorely will come.
44 The three millions bound in slavery, they
are human beings and brothers, with some
thing left in them of the divine, which cannot
be crushed out; can ye always oppress them
thus* No! it is not in the nature of thing*.
You are intersecting the land with railroads,
opening telegraph* oomnuiaicauos from point
to point, subduing the elements Is ds your
r bidding. A flood of light sad knowledge is
sweeping over the nation. How is it ps*aibl«
to keep three millions of slaves in your midst
from its benefits’ Impossible! 4 The light
ning that lighteoeth out of ihe one pan under
heaven, shtoeth to the other part under
heaven.* Slavery cannot exist where the
light comes. If the nation repents not ol
slavery, if it must be Mothered in blood, m
the name of eternal justice, so let it be.”-
I hi» is but a gleam of his address m the af
ternoon.
In the evening he spoke again to a full
boose. I attempt only a sketch of it. Speak
ing of the late meeting in the city of New
York, held to express sympathy with the
P«pe of Rome, in his efforts to extend free
tfoto of speech, of cooseteoce, aad of the
press to introduce improved modes of public
conveyance, and promote s more liberal lnter
ehange of national energies, he said “I*
was n great farce and a aham, We are
wining with and murdering Catholics h
Mexico, scoffing at their religion, dessctatiiH
their temples, throwing down their altars, a
the same time pretending to sympathise wttl
Catholics in Europe, that we lose them sih
desire to see them freed from oppressor
laws.
How do intelligent Europeans look ope
such conduct T —what do they say of it II
referred to a carricaturc illustration lately pu
forth ui the London Punch, representing a:
American slaveholder scaled in a chair, anno
with a bowie knife and revolving pistol in hi
belt, s slave-whip under his arm one foot t
placed upon the bust of Washington, fallei
on the ground. Before him are t.wo kneelinj
and manacled slaves. Oa one side arc tw<
traffickers in human flesh. Before him, in th»
distance, is a liberty pole —to it is bound a
slave, fastened bv one end of the Amenear
banner of stars and stripes, which hang!
trailing down. Near to that is a whipping
post, to which is chained a naked slave, whik
one is applying th j lash. In the background,
are representations of some of the battles be
tween Americans and Mexicans, embellished
with some of their horrid accompaniments—
conflagrated towns, broken walls, blazing can
nons, exploded bombshells, the ground strewn
with horses and men dying and dead.” Said
Douglass This picture is characteristic
and as truly American as Bunker llill, and
as Webster said of it, It looks, it speaks,
it act*.’ Thus intelligent foreigners regard
vs. Well rnigiit the poet Whittier, filled
with sorrow and indignation at our attempts
to divert attention from our damning sins, by
proffering sympathy to foreign nations, ex
claim
Go let u* a«k of Constantine to loose his grasp on
Polani’s thrf»at,
And Ik-4 tlw; Lord of Mahmoud’s line to spare the
Straggiing Suliote;
Will n->t the scorching answer come, from turban’d
Turk and fiery Russ.,
Go loose your fettered slaves at borne, then turn and
ask the like of us.*
We cannot conceal our great sin every
attempt to do so, but the more loudly pro
claims it, seems to raise it up in bad emi
nence’ to the abhorrent gaze of mankind.
Men arc coming to hold religious bodies,
with their almost omnipotent instrumentalities
for good os evil, as responsible for the giant
sins of the age, and especially for American
slavery. What are the Conferences, Synods,
Presbyteries and Religious Conventions all
over the land, doing upon this question?—
With few exceptions, opposing its progress,
•tilling discussion, furnishing scriptural argu-i
rnents, either to justify their criminal neglect i
in passing by on the other side the wounded
and bleeding victims of slavery, or in the
support of slavery.” Here he read extracts
from a sermon written by Bishop lledding, to
be preached to slaves, founded upon the
golden rule, “All things whatsoever ye would
that m m do unto you, do ye even to unto
them.” I verily thought that to enforce the
'doctrines of that rule, would be to abolish j
slavery; that, if being held as a slave, wc
should wish to be made free so, holding an-
other as a slave, it would be our duty to re
store him to liberty. It seemed a simple
truth, respecting which none could err. I
could imagine no other interpretation, and no
other but a slaveholding Divine, or u pro
slavery Theologian would dare give it any
oilier interpretation. But hear Bishop lled
ding explain If you (slaves) were in your
master's places, and your masters were in
yours, you would wish them to obey you at
all times, in your presence and when you
were absent. Then 3ince, in the providence
of God, you are slaves, you should obey your
masters, not with eye service,as men pleasers.
but as servants doing the will of God, from
the heart: all things whatsoever,’ &c. Is
not this wrenching scripture into the support,
of an unholy thing Just Heaven! and arc j
these thy ministers?”
Douglass, in closing his remarks, made an
appeal to the friends of the cause, bidding
them go on as heretofore, with the approba
tion of God, and the blessings of those who
are ready to perish. Mr. James B. Congdon
here made some excellent remarks, com
mending the Star and its Editor to the sup
port of the public. The circumstances under
which the paper was established, were pe
culiar, and reflected honor upon Mr. Doug
lass. Praised in Great Britain and caressed,
he could not be persuaded to stay from Ins
oppressed and enslaved countrymen, but pre
ferred to return, to suffer with and labor for
them. When about to embark for America,
his friends gathered around him, and taking
him by the hand, asked, What shall we
give you as a token of our love?” “Give
me a press give me a press It was the
great heart, sacrificing the thought of self to
the claims of a great cause—a noble end. As
we love that cause and hope for that end, it is
a guaranty that in supporting his press, we
are sustaining a worthy laborer. About 20 j
persons subscribed to the paper.
It was a meeting long to be remembered.—
I had better have written nothing than to have
written less yet tins is but a mere sketch of J
the meeting.
J. B. SANDERSON.
East Lexington, Mass., Feb. 7. '4B.
F'ditou of the Star— Dear Sir:—-In
long article in a late number of the Star,
(it btung an article which had previously ap
peared in the Iloston Courier,) occurs a para
graph something like the following: “He
(Mr. Palfrey) is no advocate for that Liberty
party bigotry which w ill not rote for a slave
holder under any circumstances,” 4c.* I
perceive that you enter no disclaimer to this,
and therefore would call your attention to it.
I am proud of being one humble individual
member of any party who possess a bountiful
tupply of that kind of Ingotry which leads a
■tan to conscientiously refrain from voting for
a Man T/urf. It may seem right to rote for a
alareholder, to a Massachusetts Conscience
Whig,” but I trust it does not to any one who
glories in the name of Abolitionist.
Yours, GEORGE W. SI.WONDS.
Dcath or Mbs. Dawson—The death
of this lady ia announced in English paper*
of last antra!. She was eldest daughter of
the late Sir Robert Peel, and consequently
sister of the ex-premicr.
We hawre-perwed the (Menre of Mr. Palfrey,
BMUislki-d in the iltrMH* Courier and ropied into the
Nurth Httr, and find nothing abuut L'htiiy party
*r*'y ‘-Editor
Air AMEBIC AX IXQUUITIOX.
In the dark age* of European history, a
mquaitonal conclave of Popieb prints ptk
its infernal instruments of torture, in vai
attempts to (rag Uw expression of though
and to perpetuate the reign of ignorance an
error; in the time of the good queen Bess,
M iu famous Star Chamber tried to smothc
the budding growth of free inquiry and tyi
annical kings, and emperon, and government
have oAeoumcs, in later days, used othe
means to prevent truth from finding an uttei
ance, lest their base designs against the ngb l
J and libertic* of their subjects should be di
teeted and exposed but it has been reserve
for the free people of the United States, i
the nineteenth century, in the midst of cn
lightenment and intelligence, to make a
attack, more atrocious, because more inex
inisa'ole, upon the free thought and free ex
pression of their fellow-citizens.
‘•The land of the free,” is it! What
misnomer what a mockery what an insul
to the name of Liberty That is not free
dom of discussion, in which only one party i
allowed to speak that is not freedom of in
quirv, which looks only at one side of ai
argument; that is not—cannot be. a frc<
country, in which, if an editor expresses him
self on any subject in a way that happens no
to coincide with popular sentiment, he expose
himself to the midnight assaults of lawless
ness and ignorance. This, then, is not a frei
country. It is a country iu which men an
bought, and sold, and outraged, and held it
bondage and the American people, not beinj
themselves imbued with the true spirit o
freedom, arc even now attempting to fasten
yoke of bondage on the neck of a neighbor
ing republic. Their deeds are evil, and wi!
not bear exposure. Therefore it is, tha
when an editor rebukes the jierpetrators o
those evil deeds, and exposes their bascnesi
and their w ickedness, a cowardly assault is
made upon his house and printing-office by i
lawless mob of free Americans. Alas! foi
the freedom that manifests itself after this
sort! Alas! for the brutality and ignorance
of the people that can be guilty of such ar
outrage But in this way has the world evei
rewarded its benefactors. Prophets, ami
reformers, and teachers, have not failed, cithei
through ignorance or design, to be thus re
compensed for their disinterested efforts or
behalf of their kind. Poor short-sighted
humanity when will you learn to recognize,
in tfie man of fearless speech and free thought,
the real pioneer of progress! Errors abound;
iniquity prevails a monstrous wickedness it
being committed by our country men sigh
amid the evils of ignorance and injustice and
liccause an editor attempts to remove the one
—to expose the other, he is assaulted,
mobbed, injured
"W hy is it that the land rings not with the
sound of the outrage upon the editor of the
I Charter Oak, in Hartford? Why is it that
when, not more than two months since, in
Canton, Ohio, an editor, sixty years of age,
was dragged from his bed and beaten unmer
cifully, because he dared to speak plainly
about certain officers who were recruiting for
the Mexican army in that part of the coun
try, little, if any notice is taken of the fact
How comes it that such atrocities ss these
are passed over by the press in almost utter
silence It can be accounted for only on the
ground that they too are under the influence
of the miserable conquest mania, which is
gnawing like a cancer at the heart of the
American people; that they too crave more
blood—nmre glory, and care not that the
atrocity of the Mexican war, and the w icked
ness of its instruments should be made mani
fest.
Such, however, is the invariable conse
quence of any transgression by a nation of
the laws of eternal justice and morality. It
corrupts and vitiates the very heart-fountains
of the entire people. Every attempt that is
made to exeuse or palliate the crime produces
a plentiful harvest in the destruction of moral
sentiment and right feeling and the result of
the whole—crime, palliation, apology —will
be, the retarding for years of the progress of
humanity. At the present time, the cor
rupting influence of the Mexican war upon
popular sentiment, is obvious enough—it is
mischievous enough hut when the men who
have been employed in this wicked crusade of
rapine, violence, and slaughter, shall return,
with degraded natures, to their peaceful
homes and families, in the quiet towps and
villages of our country, how much more ap
parent and how fearful will be the inarch of
demoralization and iniquity It is still true
as ever, in reference to such transgression—
Sow the wind, and ye shall reap the whirl
wind.”
But the cowardly and ruffianly attempt of
the myrmidons of war in Hartford, to gag
the editor of the Charter Oak, will not be
successful: he says
Wc i»<end to do right— to be true to our
convictions of duty— to speak out unfalter
ingly, as we have heretofore spoken, in con-j
damnation of the rapacity of our government.
of its infernal crusade against Mexico, and
of all who intelligently participate in the
crime. We intend to strip off the mask of
glory, with which interested demagogues
seek to hide tfic grim visage of war, and show
the ugly blood-smeared visage beneath it.
Our pen, our tongue, our press, shall be free, I
Brute violence may destroy them; but while
they have the power of utterance at all it
shall be a free and fearless utterance.”
It is well that there are some such spirits
as the editor of the Charter Oak in our land,
else were there not reason to fear that the,
day of our downfall is nigh l —j. D
Pawti-ckr t peb. Bth, *4B.
Mr. F. Douglass Sir—l hare received
your very important and raluable paper,
The North Star,” up to this date, with the
exception of the No. 1, which would be
glad if you could forward, if conreniem.
Though 1 hare not as yet Interested my
self, or but little, against the ab.rminablc sys
tem of slavery, yet I ever felt a sympathy
j toward9 Buch outraged vtetuna of humanity
I was therefore happy to hear you announce
m this town, your intention of lotting the
world ace that talent and good principles are
not to be estimated by the color of the akin
that you would turn Editor,” ud
teiW another powerful battery against the
strongholds of the slaveholder, under the
shelter of the National Constitution, State
Rights, Ac., which will contribute, as it can
not fail to do, much towards the emancipation
of your race, even aa much so as the opera
tions of an Exmouth,, and a Decatur, before
Algiers, tint compelled the poetical dr spot,
the Dey, to ddhrer «p his captive Christian
while lioat.
j tiooa fur reprint each aa the wry interesting
I speech of toe Hoe. G. Thompson, epos
Free Trade,” and the Rov. Theodore Par
ker a poo Slavery, and the very important ar
tides and speeches in relation to oar brigandish
outrage upon Mexico; likewise with your
exposures of the profiemors of Christianity,
of the various sects of Christians, whose min
isters and congregations sul) hold fellowship
with their siavebolding churches mod pastors
iof the South. Thus are they piously carry- j
I ing the cross with one ana, and linking whb
the derit, arm in arm, with the other.
In the No. 164 of Littell's Living Age,”j
j there is an extract from the “Charleston Mer
cury,” w hich represents the Island of Jamaica
as in a ruined condition since its emancipation
from slavery. Instead of over 200,000 h«*gs,
heads of sugar exported as formerly, it has
diminished to 30,000. The negroes are de
nounced as indolent, because they do not
work as when under the lash of the slave
driver yet it is acknowledged that they are
enabled to maintain themselves with little
work, and that sufficient labor cannot be had j
and that “all the whits inhabitants able to
leave the island, have gone sway.” The dif
fore nee of export is proof enough of the
means used and inflicted upon the poor slave I
to extort the greatest amount of unjust labor
whilst the abolishment of this, gives the
amount of over-taxed labor to the industrious
free laborer—transfers it from the tyrannical,;
avaricious slave-driver, to the free working-j
man and if Jamaica, or any other island, or
nation, or United States, cannot thrive*
without slave labor, then they ought not to
thrive, and the sooner they go down the better
for humanity, morality and justice. If the
free laborer is able to maintain himslf with
little work there, it is what he cannot do here;
and if the white laborer there is not satisfied
with being ab|e to maintain himself with but
little work, then let him leave, to where he
wdl have to do so much more work for his
support. Thus we see the very arguments r
brought foiward, which are never founded’
upon a better basis than interest and extortion,
—humanity, truth and justice being uf the
question arc shown to disprove that which
they would endeavor to establish —that slavery
would be ruinous to abolish.
Yours, most respectfully,
JOSEPH LAWTON.
WEST Vienna, Feb. 11, 1848.
Messrs. Douglass and Delant Dear
Sirs, —On looking over the 6th Number of
the North Star, I noticed iu the report of the
l Winfield Fair and Meetings, statements made
respecting myself, which need a little cor
j rcction not that I charge the reporter with
any intention of misrepresenting what I said,
or what I meant to say.
The report says—
Mr. Walker’s discourse was chiefly made
up of statements respecting his own suffer
ings.”
If my memory is not very defective, very
little of my remarks consisted of statements
of my sufferings; and what I did say in
allusion to them, was, if possible, to induce
others to the great work before them, and
place in the hands of their neighbors and
i children the means of information respecting
the condition of f he slaves, and their claims
on us and our kidnapping government.
There wxs one statement respecting his
poverty, which he made—that his family
1 were now living in a miserable cabin in Ply
mouth, the only covering of which w'as a
piece of cotton cloth.’’
I am confident I did not say, in so many
words, that the only covering cf my miser
able cabin was a piece of cotton doth but
i that it was composed of a few rough boards,
battened with laths on the sides, and over
head was covered with a piece of cotton
cloth. I here remark, to prevent being mis
understood, that the top of the cabin is nearly
flat, with common cotton sheeting lacked over
it, and paid with turpentine, to make it shed
water. This being put up with my own
hands in a hurry, was the best I could do to
shelter my family from the elements and the
materials of this I am yet in debt for, w ithout
the means of paying.
It is a little too bad, that a man who has
suffered, as Mr. Walker has done, in the
cause of the slave, and who labors as he now
does, should be allowed to live in such ex
treme destitution as he now does, or to be
compelled to expose his poverty before every
meeting he addresses.”
This idea, that I make it a part
of my discourse to make statements respecting
my poverty which is very incorrect: for it
is seldom I make mention of it in public, and
should not have made the statement I did at
Winfield, had I not been requested to do so,
while speaking.
The collection taken up on the occasion,
was loss, instead of more, than ten dollars.
It was more, however, than all the collections
taken up for us, since leaving home in No
vember last. We do not take up collections,
and have consented that any should be taken
up for us only on three or four occasions, to
defray expenses.
Yours, for the best cause,
JONATHAN WALKER.
P.S. Friend J. S. Jacobs and myself will
probably be at your place in three or four
weeks we arc now working our way
through Oswego County westward. J. W.
Philadelphia, Feb. 8, 1848.
Friends Douglass and Delaxy- —ln
reading your valuable paper, from the first
number to the present, I hare looked over
your correspondence carefully for something
1 from our city of Brotherly Lowe, hoping that
some more able pen than mute would take
hold and rouse our people from their slumber
ing condition.
You are aware that Philadelphia contains
as great, if not a greater number, of colored
persons, than any other city in this slave
holding Union.
There are a number of topics occupying
the minds of the disfranchised in this city.
The church is the great place of resort;
thousands flock to the church, to hear any
thing but anti-slavery; for lam sorry to say,
that the ministers in Philadelphia have not
yet learned the first principles of human
rights. The majority of our churches are so
connected with sliTeholding, that they have
almost forgotten that tins is a land of slaves.
\nd those that do net stand so connected,
4
have no 6afmd6m t» ope* their tea, to
have the claim of —Mining hsmsuty pn
■csted to their penile. Yet I an pleased to
he able to state, that oar oomiiuua a orach
better than it area fifteen pears ago.
We have a Lyceum and Library, where
there is a lecture sod a debate oooe a week.
The qnestaoo that has beea discussed for the
last few evenings, is, Have we a reasonable
prospect that prejudice sgamst out color will
cease, and that ore shall Dve oa a social sod
political equality with the whites in this
country 1 The question has called forth
some singular remarks sad notwithstanding
the rapid progress our people have made, and
are making, in general intelligence, there are
these in our midst, from whom we should
have expected butter things, supporting coo
s icntiou 1 fie negative aide of the quet on.
The Sabbath question occupies the atten
tion of some; hut it is astonishing to hear
how little the majority of persons know or
have thought upon this subject. They take
it fur granted, that what their minister says
is correct, without ever lucking fur them
selves.
The attention of the people has been called
somewhat to petitions. The word wAito, in
our constitution, which debars us from the
elective franchise, has not as yet created that
feeling of indignation in the minds of our
people, that it ought.
1 am, gentlemen, Yours,
CEO. W. GOINES.
TIIE FIVE ERAS.
The Patriarchal—tl« Warlike—the Commercial—
the Free—tbc Brotheily.
In the world’s youth, when its inhabitants
were thinly settled here and there on the
oases of Arabia, we see the patriarchs sus
taining in their own persons the united offices
of prophot, priest, and king. Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, and their contemporaries,
rule, teach, and intercede for their families.
They seek no other power —make no further
conquest; but living in one spot, as long as
that spot will sustain them, with those under
their care—with their flocks, and their herds,
and their cattle, pass their time in simplicity
and innocence. Man’s wants are few; his
knowledge limited; his aspirations humble,
llis God is ever present, to watch over hint—
to lead him in the green pastures, and be
side the still waters.” Always depending upon
m Almighty power to sustain—an Almighty
inn to uphold, his faith fails not —his religion
fades not; his days, and months, and years,
glide smoothly along, till his earthly exist
ence terminates in a peaceful old age of a
hundred and forty years.
But the stream of time rolls on! Men
multiply and increase, and spread over the
face of the earth. Agriculture is followed,
and cities are built, and countries are peopled.
The warrior steps forth —a man of fearless
heart and iron frame—a man of action. He
galhers his friends and dependants around
him. The earth resounds with the rumor of
his valor and the glory of his fame. He
subjects countries to his sway robs his fel
lows of their share of God’s earth, by the
power of his might; becomes the king, the
conqueror, the emperor; and in subduing,
civilizes man.
Still time rolls on New principles arise
in the world new wants arise. The ever
craving, ambitious aspirations of the human
soul, ceaselessly striving after something
higher—something belter, will not rest satis
fied under the iron yoke of conquest. Inven
tions are made science extends; ships are
built; new worlds are discovered. Men g(
to all the ends of the earth in search of gain
the scorching regions of the tropics—th<
freezing precincts of the poles, are ransacked
for gain. They dive into ,the depths of tht
ocean, for gain they dig into the bowels o
the earth, for gain they live, to count thcii
dollars and, dying lose them om
merce extends its sway and by it, men ar<
robbed of their birthright, through fraud—a.«
they were by the warrior, through violence.
Selfishness becomes the all-governing prin
ciple gold the all-worshipped deity. The
ignorant, in their weakness, are oppressed
and plundered. Kings, constitutions and
laws, being all arrayed on the side of wealth,
the rich become richer, and the poor more
poverty-stricken. W ant, misery, and wretch
edness prevail in the huts of the poor and the
mud-hovels of the injured. The claims of
brotherhood are despised; the bands of kin
dred are severed; man, in the image of his
Maker, is sold, chained, scourged; he is, at
one and the same time, civilized, robbed, de
graded and the most paradoxical of all para
doxes appears—in the midst of inexhaustible
supplies of clothing, many want raiment; in
the midst of abundance of the gifts of Pro
vidence, many also want food.
Still the wheel of Time goes round, and
faster than before! People run to and
fro, and knowledge is increased.” Men sigh
in thoir prison- house, and groan in their
bondage, and seek for a way of escape.
They labor for the means of subsistence, and
strange to say, their efforts are ineffectual;
they produce abundance, but like the 1 an
talus draught, it still eludes their reach.
They see the beneficence of their Creator
everywhere displayed, and each one asks
himself the question, Am not I one of God’s
children and if I am, why am I not a sharer
of his bounty! It is then they learn that
Commerce is robbing them of their share.
Then they turn to the rich and mighty, and
ask their protection against the robberies of
Commerce; but selfishness and gam having
blinded their moral vision, their reply m,
“Commerce does nothing contrary to the
laws of man.” Then they tern to the reli
gious— to the professor of that religion
which teaches to do justly and Jove mercy,”
and ask his help against the aggressions of
their enemy; but he too deaf to their en
treaty, for he is a daily and devout wor
shipper at Mammon’s shrine and his answer
Commerce doss nothing conn ary to the
laws of God.” Then they resolve to seek
no more the aid of tbc nefa, or the mighty,
or the professedly religious, hut trusting in
the strength of then good cause, they demand
from the oppressor, and the miser, and the
selfoli, in th; sacred namss of eternal
Truth and Justice, 41 the inalienable right
to life, liberty, and the person of happiness,”
with the means snd the power to sustain life,
to maintain liberty —to follow after happi
ness and, amid the bunting of hoods, and
the breaking of chains, and the throwing o f
of fetters, «mc n«f»f shoot of gnre&sl j*»v
We an free! we are free
“Roll on, ye dark brtnra yeara,** sad
usher in the dawning of a better time! flee
there is a higher steadily to attain —a nobler
doty to perform, than in comprehended tn the
politician's moat extended idea of U ous:
ftart! lama aOar! Peace, Love and Friend
ship, mat* yet be the fudaf stars of hu
manity the wide world oae country, and all
men oae family. Errors wiU then vanish,
tike the mists of Burning, before die opening
dawn of Troth's bright day and the fruits
of sympathy wiU ripen and arrive at their
perfect growth, beneath the summer sun
of Universal Lore. Ob, peaceful day! oh,
better time! when will your glorious morn
ing dawn? Come in thy splendor! shine
in thy beauty! pour forth the rays of thy
light and thy love! Scatter the mists of
Prejudice; dispel the gloom of Ignorance;
chase away the dink vapors of Vice! And
then will the sweet song of the new dispensa
tion arise; in one glad chorus of thrilling me
lody, from the children of Earth of every clnue
and every color—“ We are bn threa !we
are brethren !’*—j. n.
NOTICES.
WESTERN NEW YORK ANTI
SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Executive Committee will meet on
Tuesday evening next, Feb. tfUth, at the
house of Isaac Post, 36, Sophia Street.
Attendance is requested at 7 o'clock pre
preciscly.
W. C. NELL, Rec. Sec.
anti-slavery meetings.
Charles Lenox Rcmond and J. C. Hatha,
way, A gents of the Western New York Anti
Slavery Society, propose to hold Anti Sla,
very Meetings, at the following places
Geneva, Thura. and Fri. Feb. 17 18.
Vie ma, Sat. and Sand. 1!) 50.
Faimington,Tucs. and Wed. 22 A 53.
Palmyra, Thun, and Fri. 24 25.
Williamson, Sat. and Sund. 2C 27.
Ontario, Mon. and Tues. 28 29.
Th 3 meetings will commence on the after
noon of the first day, at 2 o'clock.
I Frederick Douglass has engaged to at
tend nearly all these meetings. The Agents
j hope to have his aid at all of them.
I fiends rtf the Slave! will you come to j
these meetings, prepared to speak, to hear,
and to act This nation is in the midst of a
mighty moral revolution—
And have ye chos-n, oh, my people,
On whose patty ye shall stand,
Ere (he Doom from its worn sau:!al
Shakes the dust against our land 1”
By bold, united, and decisive action, all
j may yet be well with our slave-cursed couu- j
j try. At any rate, we can discharge our duty, j
and thereby maintain our integrity. Angels
can do no more, and we should do no less.—
Means will be taken at the above meetings to I
secure the active co-operation of the friends of
the slave, during the coming year. Never;
was there a more auspicious moment to strike
a blow for freedom, “Upward and onward!” f
is the motto.
The friends in the different localities are
expected to make all necessary arrangements.
ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES.
Jonathan Walker, (a victim of the slave
i power,) and John S. Jacobs, (a self emanct
pated slave,) will lecture at the following
specified places and times:
Colossc, Oswego Co., Saturday, Feb. l!>.
Union Square, Sunday,’ 20.
Mexicoville, Tuesday, 22.
New Haven, Wednesday, 23.
Scrtba, Thursday, 24.
Will the friends of the slave, at the above
j places, make the necessary arrangements for
the meetings, and be prepared to carry the
J lecturers from place to place, without charge.
NOTICE.
K. D. Hudson's appointments, in company
with an American slave, in Heikmicr, Otsego,
and St. Lawrence counties
Bracket's neighborhood, 4 miles from Lit
tle Falls, Herkimer county, Thursday, Feb
ruary 17.
Nieholsville, St. Lawrence county, Friday
and Saturday 18 and 19.
Little Falls, Herkimer county, Sunday, 20.
Fairfield, Herkimer county, Monday, 21.
Norway, Herkimer co., Tuesday. 22.
Fort Plain, Herkimer co., Thursday, 24.
Newville, Herkimer co., Friday, 25.
Springfield, Otsego co., Saturday, 26.
Richland, do Sunday, 27.
Winfield, do Monday, 28.
The meetings to commence at 6 o'clock, i
P.M.
PUBLIC MEETING IN BOSTON.
On Monday evening l the 14th inst., a pub
lic meeting of the colored citizens of Boston,
'assembled in Belknap Street Church, to hear
an anti-alavery address from the Her. Joseph
C. Lovcjoy, of Carabridgeport.
The meeting was called to order by Mr.
Bibb. C. H. Roberts in the chair Wm. G.
Allen, Secretary.
The following resolutions were then offered
by Henry Bibb, the fugitive slave, and accept
ed
Whereas, from a late report of the Canada
Missionary Society, we learn that the under-j
ground railroad is in successful operation, over
one thousand slaves from opa State alone, j
having escaped to Canada West and where-,
as, the climate is more congenial with tbeir
health and prosperity than the Colony at Li
beria therefore,
Ist. Resolved, That we recommend the
Canada Colony to the support of the commu
nity, in preference to Liberia and the linrt
fact alone is a striking proofthat, if “the slaves
are not able to take care of themselves,” they
are able to take off themselves.
3d. That we congratulate all fugitive slaves,
who have set their feet on free soil, or who
m iy hereafter do so, and rejoice with them in
the enjoyment of a right guaranteed them by
law, namely, the right of attf defence.
3d. Resolved, That we recommend to all
such persons to defend themselves ag-cnal ail
attempts made by slaveholders, or their abet
tors, to retake them back iato bondage, to the
sacrifice of human life in self-defence, if ne
cessary, and to seller the penalty of the lav,
w hich would be hr belter litas to be taken
back to hopeless bondage.
Hr. L., gave one of bis able sad encourag
ing add mart in behalf of suffering humanity,
for which s vole of thank# was tendered him.
A motion was then made, after a spirited
debate, for the adoption of the renolotious.
The third resolution was opposed by W.
W. Brown, and defended by Messrs. Cum
mings, Bibb, and others; after which, it was
adopted by almost a unanimous vote.
Moved by Henry Bibb, that the proceedings
of this meeting be published in the Emanci
pator, the CTmmotvpe, the Lib rumor, and the
North Star, and that we invite all other aau
siavery papers to copy the same.
WM. O. ALLEN, Secretory.
Boston, Peh. |sth, I*4s,
Tax tlrranmnm. —A co respoadect of
the Boston WaahmftOMßß says:
“We hid rather tear Abby Hutchinson
than iatai to the muotc of all lha Don
nas and Signoras in Ch ptcsxkan. She sings;
they anaudmiae sod scream. Them are
otters <’f the icuu.- optoioji. as the audince
ut the MMmfeon Lst Monday night testified.
A* for the brothers, v« w rhsHgC in
,7’- ll *T w just as God made Uwvn,
full of heart and If for no other wwoo,
love them for then philanthropy. Tbev
tel for humanity =a
w.-11. They rein mber ibu poor slaie in’ hi*
gmlhng chains the drttnkaru in his dreams
uudnem; the «u!o» in her hours of loneli
ness and the orphan in us helplessness It
for tlmae traits of true nobthly that they are
beloved row, and will he honored and cher
ished hereafter. They are the heralds of a
j IT***! time coming,’ and by their tare talents
and extnumimnry gifts, they arc doing more
to hasten the triumph of right over might,
than any equal number of persons within our
ken. May God bless them in all their move
j meins, and abundantly reward them according
to their nch ilr-sen ins*.
ILr* 1U- New Drieaiiseorrespoouvnt of the
New York Tribune, says:
With sorrow I enclose you the within state
meat of the result of our election of a U. S.
j Senator.—This was effected by bnbtry roost
undoubtedly—so all say. Mr. Myles (the ab
j sentee) declared that he had been offered four
negroes if he would stay away and not vote.
JHe did stay away. The House investigated
the matter io day. I hope there is honesty
enough and coupgs* enough to probe the in
iquity to the bottom, but I fear not. Soule is
no American and no Statesman, but a gentle
man and a man of taleut. I can hardly be
lieve that he will allow himself to be made the
instrument and beneficiary of such corruption,
even though his party require it. Wa shall
i see. The State, the Country, and the Ame
rican character are involved in the issue, s.
From the Liberty Bell
COME AND DO IT BETTER
The err is often raided against the
Anti-Slaver)' folk, “Thejr work is a
good one; the end srood; perhaps the
motive—hut the method foolish and the
spirit bad. We also hate Slavery in
the abstract; res more, we hate it in
the concrete; hut we do not like the
measure* of the Anti-Slavery men, and
we dishke their spirit.”
To all such we say —That sound*
I very honest.—You like the aim but not
the means. Come and do it better.
There is room enough and to spare. Il
i you hate Slavery, abstract and concrete
1 —let your hatred appear in your action.
If you like not our path travel in your
own, with what progress you may, and
j G d e-K.*ed you, say We. If you like
not our society, r,r our name, why,
work in simh company as you will, and
i with such a name as you shell get;
only work.
1 Then; are two ways of criticising an
action—one is to s!t down and tell how
bad the action is, how faulty, hou
inadequate; the other is—to set exnrn
j pies of better actions. One is criticism
by censure, the other criticism by
creation. Now the Anti-Slavery men
I have been so abundantly blessed With
i the first kind of criticism that they are
almost afraid it is lost upon them. Pray
give them a little of the latter; criticise
them by example. Reform their bad
hand by setting them a good copy.
The politician—that is, the party-man
j says,“ Hut the Anti-Slaverv men actu
ally abuse the State. We like their
work, not their abuse. To such we
say again: Come and do it better.
Oppose Slavery; prevent its extension;
get it ended, and all that without abus
ing the State. Only oppose it manfully,
openly, and with a continual front—as
the Democrats oppose Protection; as
the Whigs, Free-Trade. You say—
The Anti-Slavery men do not like the
Constitution, call it pro-slavery and
the like, —so they are enemies of their
country.” They have small reason for
liking the Constitution as it is now. It
is no great wonder that a mail who
1 bclives “all men are created equal,
endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable rights,”—should dislike
that part of the Constitution which per
petuates Slavery, which bind’s men to
defend Slavery, to bear arms in its
behalf, to pay money for supporting it,
to deliver up a fugitive who makes his
declaration of independence—setting
up on his own unalienable right to life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Remove this blot out of the Constitution
and no Anti-Slavery man, as such, will
quarrel with it.—But as things now go,
the Defender of the Constitution as
it is; as onr fathers left it t<> us,” is
in daiiger of becoming a defender not
of Freedom, but of Slavery; nat a
friend to his country., but a foe who
fastens about her neck a mill-stone
which must, at last drown her in the
depths of that sea which swallows up
wicked States. Get a Constitution
which does not protect the robber of
men, and what Anti-S!averv man will
wag his tongue against it.'' Oppose
Slavery iri your own way, without
abusing the State.
The sectarian—the man of a theolo
gical party —says likewise: But the
Anti-Slavery men abuse the churches,
speak ill of the orthodoxy of our times,
and have no great faith in the clergy
themselves. —We like their work, but
not their abuse of the churches.” To
them also we say: Come and do it
better. Oppose Slavery with the same
zeal that you oppose heresy, infidelity,
unbelief, and without abusing the
churches, slighting the orthodoxy ol
the day, or without underrating the
clergy,—only oppose it. Take as much
pains to teach (Mmsttanity, with all
that belongs thereto —the whole coun
sel of God—to the slave and the master
in the United States, as you take to
send missionaries to India, China, and
the Sandwich Islands. Perhaps the
negro, ou the Gaboon river, docs not
need a missionary to help save his
soul more than the negro-driver on
the Potomac or the Cattahooclr*. The
heathenism of Eastern nations is very
had—no doubt; but the heathenism of
America is a little nearer at hand uml
more inexcusable. But oppose Slavery
if you can and not oftend the churches.
Is it true that the Anti-Slavery men
speak ill of the churches except so far
as those churches uphold Slavery by
speech or silencer It has net yet been
shown. In opposing churches, church
doctrines, and church-servants, the
Anti-Slavery men only meant to oppose
them so far as they upheld Slavery.
Surety they never thwarted the efforts
of any church which aimed to promote
goodness and piety amongst men. Put
suppose they have erred a little in
opposing the churches which never
liked an opponent —and you see the
error. Why, extend a little charity
toward them; criticise them bravely by
setting a better example while sparing
the churches. Contend you, with all
vour might, against Slavery. The old
opponents of Savery will never disturb
you: the slave shall bless 'ou. One
day the churches shall call you a
Saint —which is a trifle. To-day the
angel of the churches shall sav:—
“Well done, good and faithful ser
vant!”
Good, s'-ber, quiet inen.say: “The
Anti-Slavery men are light in the main.
Slavery is not the only wrong of our
times; but the worst and the most in
excusable. W e find little fault with
what they say about the State or the
churches, thinking that pretty well de
served. But they quarrel with one an
other: the Old School, is bigoted, the
Eibcrty party sectarian, both hate one
another in »st cordially, nnd wust**
their lives in mutual coulcnmn. We
like their w ork, but not their quarrels.”
To such likewise we say: Come and
d-> it better. Do it without bigotry,
without sectarianism, without quarrel
ling. But be sure and do it.
Quarrelling i*» no new thing. Some
times tie re has been a little jarring
among political nipn—one has known
of such things at Conventions, when
only men of one party met together.
A quarrel amongst sectarians is a
thing that has happened. Perhaps
thcie was never n council of divines
the most orthodox, or most heterodox,
but they separated after a little strife,
and went h<une with heart burning*
rmtf l i 1 g
at least fome of them. Meo who
I to discu&a the method of Prison
pline bring their old quimh from the
Convention or the street, and bardljr
keep the peace. Still notwithstanding
the great age and undeniable respeeta-
L Itilit v of the habit of quarrelling, calling
hard names, and getting red in the
faco—it is a bad habit, and we are glad
1 to ace you dislike it. Therefore set
1 Abolitionists an example; oppose sla
very wit bunt quarrelling. Spend all
jour strength on the enemy don t
»a**te a shot by any random fire, or in
any private quam I. Who knows but
1 you are exactly the inen that are need
ed to bring down the game after the
bush has been so long beaten and so
much ado has been made on all sides:
Criticise by superior creation. Coinc
‘I and do it better!
Ij THKOUORE PARKER.
c
j bLAV£KOLDf>G IESII.MONI TO THE
Value of Freedom. A projiosition
has been before the Legislature ot
South Carolina, to grant permission to
a Mr. Adams to emancipate one of his
slaves. The slave was the servant ol
h s son, Lieut. Adams, of the Edge
ficld Volunteers, engaged in the Mexi
can war. Eicut. Adams fell at the
liattle of Chut übusco, and the devotion
of the poor slave Charles to las young
master, and his zeal in fighting the
butties of bis country, hare induced the
father to wish to bestow upon him the
boon of Freedom. He therefore asks
the Legislature to permit him to do so.
Chivalrous S. Carolina would scarcely
deny such a request.
What a testimony is here borne re
specting the slaveholder’s estimate of
freedom to the slave! A father mourns
the loss of a beloved son. Over
whelmed with grief, his atfections go
i out to ail who loved that son. The fi
delity of the slave who fought by his
side on the battle-field, and watched
with affectionate sorrow by the dead
body of his young master, through the
long day and night, awakens the
fataer’s gratitude, and he longs to re
compense such untiring devotion to one
so dear to himself, by the best gifts
which he can bestow. And what gift
does he choose? The slave’s freedom,
lie feels that no greater can he be
stowed, and that nothing less than this
will satisfy Ids own heart. He asks
permission to set the slave free. It has
been ever thus, when an individual or a
State has wished to confer reward upon
a slave for some highly meritorious ser
vice, freedom lias been the first thought.
Aye! give him freedom. They know
that they can give him nothing more
precious. In acting thus they are true
to their own nature. But are they so,
when they declare, as they often do,
th.it freedom would he a curse to the
slave—that he desires it not,and is con
tent with his condition? If they really
believe their own assertions, they have
a strange way of manifesting their
gratitude. But they do not believe
them. A voice from the depths of their
soul protests againt the words of their
lips. Let no one, then, be deluded by
those stale falsehoods respecting the in
capacity of the slave for the enjoyntent
of freedom, and his contentedness in
bondage.— Penn. Freeman.
MOTHER AMELIA.
HY EDMUND QUINCY.
A few weeks since, I paid a visit to
a revered and beloved relative, who en
joys the evening of a long and well
spent life, in one of the most beautiful
of our inland towns. Our conversation
was chielly of the past. We talked of
the people and custom of times which
preceded the Revolution; of the siege ol
Boston; of (.lenerai Washington and
lJr. Franklin, and of tlie officers of the
French licet, v. ho, at a later period,
were in habits of Ultimate intercourse
with the family of her father—my great
grandfather, at Braintree, now kiuincv.
Among other things, wc talked of the
“patriarchal system,” as it existed in
New England, seventy years since.—
She told me of the attention which was
paid to the religious instruction of her
lather’s slaves; of thi ir attachment to
the family; which, however, did not
prevent their running away upon occa
sion;) and of the kind treatment they
received. Uistiactions, however, were
made between them aud the white ser
vants, and they always sat at separate
tables, though they were on the best
possible terms.
Mv aunt spi-ke with particular affec
tion of one of the slaves, who was her
nurse, and who w as known in the fam
ily as mother C’crlia. I had before
heard of Mother Cm ha; for an uncertain
tradition had come dow n in the nursery
of the family, even to my times,
about her. 1 well remember the mys
terious idea I had of her, as a child;
and that, after dark, I would have made
any reasonable circuit to avoid passing
through the room in which she was'
said to have died. My aunt, at my re
rpiest, gJive me a connected account of
her; some particular ot which stem to
me worth preserving,
Ccelia was brought to Boston from
Afi ica at seven years of age. and was
immediately purchased by my great
grandfather. In his family she remain
ed tiil her dcr.th. She believed that she
was made of the true porcelain clay of
Africa, and that she we;u!d have been
entitled to the lank aud precedence of
a princess of the Blood, had she re
mained in that country; and her opin
ion was confirmed hy a'sort of tattooing,
supposed toLe peculiar to royrffty. Si;e
was an uncommonly handsome woman,
of a strong mind and a tiue hcait.—
She had, t*.*o, as good an education as
was generally thought necessary at that
period fer women in any rank of lile;
that is to say, she had been taught to
read and write. i<he received into her
arms the n>e*mbers ol a numerous iutn
ily at their biith, and closed tire eyes u(
many of them in death. Mie tenderly
loved her master aud his children, aud
was regarded by them rather as an
humble friend, than as a slave; but her
high spirit cculd never become recon
ciltd to her servile condition. The
draught of slavery was still hitter, tho’j
commended to her lij* by a kind and
friendly hand.
Mother C-otiia would gather the little
inhabitants of the nursery around her, j
and tell them how, at their tender age, j
>he was literally token by force out of
her fmher’s sum*, and carried away'
into a strange land, and sold into hope
leu captivity.
I do out telT jo** these things," in;
dears, she would add, to nnute yot
think hardly of your lathe/ for buying
inr; for he only did wliat everybod;
else does, and be has always been i
good master to me; but when yon grov
up. don’t you buy slaves.’
44 From that lime, said my ex
cellent aunt, 44 1 have been an aboii
to i rust.”
Ca iia, in the course of her pilgrim
age, bad been married, ami had tei
children, all of whom died young. On*
day, my aunt, when sitting at play b;
her side in the nursery, said in all th*
hrcdlessness of childhood: “Mothe
Crelia, are you not sorry that ail you
children are dead
44 No, my dear, she replied, turoin*
quickly upon her; no, my dear, 1 d<
ngt w«ut slaves to live!”
Just before the revolutionary wai
broke out, when liberty W3S as familial
in men’s mouths as it now is, and some'
what nearer their hearts, many of th<
slaves throughout New- England wen
unreasonable enough to think that th«
principles w hich I hey heaid daily main
fnined applied to blacks as well as
whites; and unscrupulously helpec
themselves to their freedom. Ot thi;
number were most of the slaves ot nn
great-grandfather. He was a zealotn
Whig; and to the credit ol his consis
tenev, be it told, he took no measurer
for the recovery of his property.”
Codia had made up her inind to fol
low their example, when her iutentionr
came to the ear of her master. He, ir
all kindness, expostulated with her or
her determination. He told her he
should make no opposition to her plan
if she chose to adhere to it; hut he re
minded her that they had grown old to
gether, that she had ever received tin
kindest treatment at his hands; and Ik
described to her the difference she
would find in her situation, when en
tirely dependent on her own industry
for support, Compared with what il
would be if she had him to look up to,
1 know very w ell,” said lie, thm
vou can get a good livingju Boston a<
a cook or confectioner, as long as youi
strength lasts; but the time must scor
arrive when you are too old to work;
and your health may fail before thai
time comes. In such an event, yoi
must be left to the charity of strangers,
or come upon the parish; w-hereas, i:
vou remain in my service, you may de
pend upon being treated, in age or ir
sickness, with the same tenderness 1
would bestow on a sister or a daughter
If you persist in your intention of leav
ing me, I snail give iny consent; bui
I wish you to take a few days to re
flect upon what I have said, and tlicr
decide.”
These arguments, combined w ith hei
affection for her master’s family, pre
vailed over her thirst for freedom, ani
she remained with him to the end of hei
days.
A few' years after, she was scizec
with her last illness. On her death
bed her master addressed her to this
effect: Ccelia, did I not advise you
well? You have now in your lust sick
ness all the comforts and luxuries
w hich iny fortune can command, or thal
I would bestow on my wife or daughter,
Are you not satisfied that you arc
much better off now, than you would
have been had you taken your freedom,
as you wished?”
No, sir,” replied the slave, turning
her dying eyes upon her master—“No,
sir, for then I should have died
Free
I do not know whether others will
deem these traits worthy of a record;
but it appears to me, if tlic.se replies
had been made by a Roman Matron,
carried captive to Carthage, or into
Pontes, historians would have inscribed
them upon their pages, and Ccelia
would have been as honored a name
upon the lips of all posterity, as those of
Arria or Cornelia.
The Slave Trade. —The following
is an extract from a letter recently re
ceived in this city from respectable
sources at Rio Janeiro:
Ilcrc there is nothing particularly
new, tilings jogging on much the same
as when vou left us. The slave trade
is brisk. The recent orders which the
Consul has received, to grant sailing
certificates to any American vessel
which may be sold here to American
citizens, whatever the destination may
be, have given a great impetus to it.
We are very sorry to learn this. Il
orders have been given to the American
Consul, of so very general a nature as
is here said, it is the very method to
encourage, to protect, to pamper, in
fact, the slave trade. Let us see how,
then, this is managed.
It is desired to fit out a vessel for a
slave expedition from Rio. An Ameri
can is found unprincipled enough to
lend his name—the same name will
serve for a hundred transactions of the
kind—and there is no dishonest strata
gem by which money is to be made,
which cannot, on taking a little pains,
find a fitting agent. The vessel is sold
to the American, and the Consul gives
a certificate of nationality. The Por
tuguese captain, a veteran perhaps in
the Slave trade, aecutComcd to skulk
along the African const, is put on beard
ar.d sails with American colors. On
the sea the vessel is American or Por
tuguese, a 3 may serve its turn; it comes
back w ith a cargo of slaves, and lands
them on the liiazi ian coast as a Por
tuguese ship. Thus our flag, the cer
tificate of our consul, and the American
name, arc abused to the most atrocious
of purposes. —Rrenlng Post.
Trie Courage. —He that thinks,
speaks, writes, and publishes truth
only, without fear, favor, or speech cf
others, and lhat in kindness to all sub
scribers, possesses it. If a portion of
the publishers of newspapers should
form a league of brotherhood, to pub
lish truth, without respect to party,
sect, or denomination, tlicr would
double tbeir subscription list in a very
short time.— tlx.
otJt o*—l have livrH to know that the
great secret &f human happiness is thi*—
never suffer your energies to stagnate. The
old adage of too many irons in the fire,' 4
conveys an -hon.mahle be. Yoa cannot have
too many pofcrr, tongs, and aH—keep them
»n ptmg -Dr. Untie.
ItATVRE.
A nobler want of man i§ served by
nature —namely, the tore of beauty.
,1 Sock is the constitution of all thing#, or
such the plastic power of the human
i eye, that the primary form, as the aky,
the mountain, the tree, the give
us a delight in and for themselves a
.pleasure arising from outline, color,
motion, mmf grouping. And as the eyre’
is the best composer, so light is the first
of painters. There is no object so foul
t that intense light will not make beauti
luL And the stimulus it afford* toi
the sense, and a soit of infinitude which
it hath, like space and time, will make
ail matter gay. But besides this gener
al grace diffused over nature, almost
all the individual forms arc agreeable
to the eye, as is proved by our endless
imitations of seme of them; a* the acorn,
the grape, the pine-cone, the wheat-ear,
the egg, the wirgs and forms of most
birds, the lion’s claw, the serpent, the*
butterfly, sea-shells, flames, clouds,!
i buds, leaves and the forms of many
I trees, as the palm.
The influence ofthe forms and actions 1
in nature is so neceful to man, that, in
its lowest functions, it seems to lie on
the confines of Commodity and Beauty.
1 To the body and mind which have been
cramped by noxious work or company,
nature is medicinal and restores their!
tone. The tradesman, tho attorney,!
comes out of the din and craft of the i
street, and sees the sky and the woods, i
and is a man again. In their eternal
calm he finds himself. The health of
the eye seems to demand a horizon.—.
We are never tired so long as we can
sec far enough.
But in other hours nature satisfies the,
soul purely by its lovliness, and without
any mixture of corporeal benefit. 1
i have seen the spectacle of the morning'
from the hill-top over against my house,-
from day break to sunrise, with erno-i
tiona which an angel might share. The
j long slender bars of cloud float like
fishes in the sea of crimson light. From j
t the earth, as a shore, I look out into
that silent sea. I seem to partake its,
rapid transformations; the active cn-
ehantment reaches my dust, and I di
-1 late and conspire with the morning
I wind. How does nature deify us with a
few and cheap elements! Gire me
i health and a day, and I irill make the 1
pomp of emperor 8 ridiculous. The
I dawn is my Assyria, the sunset and
j moonrise my Paphos, and unimagina
ble realms of fairie.”— Emerson.
JENNY LIND AND THE
COTTAGERS.
It seems that Miss Jenny, being one
of those young ladies who much delight
to see what can be seen, whilst staying
at the Bath Hotel, ordered out her
(carriage, and, accompanied by her
j friend Mrs. Grote, and other parties, 1
took a drive for the purpose of enjoy-j
ing the beautiful scenery for which our
much favored neighborhood is so cele-l
brated. Amongst other places thus f
visited, was the picturesque village of
j Henbury; and here, as a matter jfj
course, the party were shown the Hen-,
bury Cottages. Jenny w as much grati
tied, nay, positively enchanted. She
praised the neat arrangements of this
peaceful spot, in whose very quietude
and simplicity she seemed intuitively to
sympathise. Having taken the round
and surveyed the exterior of the build
ings, she at last entered one ofthe!
dwellings, where she was received by
two of the aged occupants. The old
t women were busily employed with their
knitting, whilst high above them, in a
cage, a prisoi blackbird warbled its
woed-notes wild, making the low ly cot
resound with its charming melody.— 1
The old cottagers and Jenny were soon
on intimate terms; she examined their
knitting, and chatted away in a mo*t
affable manner. “What a beautiful
bird is yours,” she at last remarked.,
Yes my lady, ’tis indeed a pretty
creature; we calls un Jenny Lind.”—
“Oh! indeed,” remarked Jenny, with
a smile; I fear you aie too compli
mentary to that person; have you ever
heard her sing?” “La! no, my lady;
it ain’t the likes of we as she would
care to sing tor” “Then would you
like fo hear her, do you think?” “Ah,
that l should, indeed,” was the reply
of one. “And I, too,” said the other
she must he a dear crectur.” “Well,
said the fair questioner,” as something
very like a tear glistened in her clear
blue eyes, I am Jenny Lind, and I
shall be happy to gratify you.” Where
upon she. immediately sang one of her
pretty melodies', to the great delight of
her aged auditors, who, with many pro
testations of thankfulness, vowed that
they should “long remember the dav
when the sweet voung ladv paid ’em a
visit. —Bristol Mirror.
Murder of two Overseeks.—The
Columbus, (Ga.) Lnquirerhas the par
ticulars of a murder committed in
Randolph Co. upon two Negro Traders,
Trvtter and Bolton, by two of their
slaves. They had encamped for the
night in a wood, and while lying to
gether on a matrass, asleep, the negro
men took position, one on each side of
their victims, and at a given signal cut
their throats w ith a razor. Trotter was
not so fatally cut as was Bolton, and
w as able to jump up, when he was de
spatched with an axe! The bodies
were then carried off a mile distant,
and thrown from a bridge into a creek,
when the hiurderers proceeded to se
cure the money and burn the notes and
papers of the deceased, and having set
on fire the bloody matrass, put out 11
with the carryall and horses in the di
rection of Marion Co., taking the hoy
with them. The fire having communi
cated to the woods, the murders were
discovered, and the slaves pursued and
caught. j
_
Kextuckv Slave Law.—The bilk
w hich had been for some time before the j
Senatorial branch of the Kentucky Lc-, 1
gislature, to repeal in part and other- 1
w ise modify the lawr of 1833 against thi*
importation of slaves into Kentucky, re-
reived ita quietus on Saturday last.— 1
Strenuous efforts wpre made to amend
it, but without nictiM, and it waa final-
ly lost on ita third reading, by a vote of J
19 to 17. A prolonged and very oh- 1
annate effort was made in 1830 or ’43, 1
to repeal the non-importation law, but
failed. The subject has been up, with 1
|ike *uccc««, nearly every session birice. I
Tfflp BLimetS OP MITOT.
Thw if nothing more touching in
tfc* history of literature than the mis
fortune which befel the Bard of Paradise
Lost, as related by himself.
It is now, 1 think, about ten years
since I perceived my vision to grow
weak and dull: and at the same time,
I was troubled with pain in my kidney*
and bowels, accompanied with flatulen
cy. In the morning, if I began to read,
as was my custom, my eyes instantly
ached intensely, but were refreshed
after a little corporeal exercise. The
candle w hich t looked at seemed as it
it were encircled by a rainbow. Not
long after the sight in the left part ot
the left eye [which I lost some years
before the other j became quite obscured
ami prevented me from discovering any
object on that side. The sight in my
other eye has now been gradually and
sensibly vanishing away for about three
years; some months before it had en
tirely perished, though I stood motion
less, everything which 1 looked ht seem
ed in motion to and fro. A stiff cloudy
vapor seemed to have settled on my
forehead and temples, which usually
occasions a suit of somnolent pressure
upon my eyes, and particularly from
dinner till evening. So that 1 often re
collect wiir.t is said of the poet Phineas
in the Argonautics:—
A sttifx-r tlceplii* cloudy temples bound
And when he wnke-l he spouted a* whit lint; roun-J.
Or in afreLle ti nner in* la_>.
I ought not to omit that, while l had
any sight left, as soon as 1 lay down on
my bed, and turned on either side, a
flood of light used to gush from inv
closed eyelids. Then as my sight be
came daily more impaired, the colors
became more faint, and were emitted
with a certain cracking sound; but eve
ry species of illumination being, as it
were, extinguished, there is diffused a
round me nothing but darkness, or dark
ness mingled and streaked with an ashy
brown. Vet the darkness iu which 1
am perpetually immersed seems always
by night and by day, to approach nearer
to a white than a black; and when the
eye is rolling in its socket, it admits a
little particle oflight as through a chink.
And though your physicians may kindle
a small ray of hope, yet I make up my
mind to the malady as quite incurable;
and often reflect, that as the wise man
admonishes, days of darkness are de
stined to each of us. The darkness
which I experience, less oppressive
than that of the tomb, is owing to the
singular goodness of the Deity, passec
amid the pursuits of literature and the
cheering salutations of friendship. Bui
if, as it is written, man shall not live b}
bread alone, but by every word tha
procccdeth from the mouth of God
why may not any one acquiesce in tin
privation of his sight, w hen God has s
amply furnished his mind and his con
science with eyes Milton's Pros
Harks.
TRIFI.CS.
Somebody has said, there is no sncl
thing in the world as a trifle; and al
are ready to acknowledge, that th<
most trivial event of our fives mav lx
followed by the most important results
A step to the right or the left preserve:
the soldier from the unseen bullet. A
hasty word has cost many a man hi:
life, and an idle laugh or u carcles
jest has broken the ties of the strongest
friendship. Coniines, the historian,
was once visiting the duke of Bur
gundy, and returning from hunting, he
sportively commanded the Duke to pull
off his boot. The duke performed the
service for him, but concluded by
thrusting the hoot into the histo
rian’s lace. l or this otfoncc Com
ines ever afterwards sought by his
writings to render the duke infamous;
ar;d when many years had passed, his
books wore tinctured with the venom
of hatred.
It is impossible for the full results ol
any action to be foreseen. The future
cannot be reached from the highest
pedestal of the present. Many deeds,
at first, seem as insignificant as the
little mountain stream, that sends out
into the valley a slender tiny thread,
but which goes on enlarging and ex
panding until it becomes a mighty
river. “No man can at the same
time fill his cup from the source and
lVorn the mouth of the Nile.” The
little waters that genius calls forth from
the rock of truth in this day, are des
tined to become the salvation streams
of future generations. Who of the
living of our time will be denominated
greatest in future ages is all a mystery,
Perhaps he is now bending over his
flickering lamp, in some dim closcl
which the world’s cold eye has never
penetrated, or perchance is in the fur
row toiling for his daily bread.
Tamerlane, afterward the mightv
conqueror of Asia, once, when a young
man, rested from his labors despondent.
Musing upon the difficulties of life, his
eye fell upon an ant climbing up a
steep bill with a giain of corn. Re
peatedly it fell back w ith its burden, and
not until the seventieth trial were it?
efforts successful. The warrior ir
after life, crowned with the glories ol
Conquest, declared that in counties?
emergencies he had been preserved
from despair by the recollection of the
perseverance of the ant. When thal
monarch swept through Asia at thr
head of Jib countless legions, like a
destroying whirlwind, he rode on tin
back of that insignificant ant. And
when he built his pyramid of seventy
thousand human skulls, lie might have
appropriately crowned it w ith the ani
and its burden.
Robert Bruce, once hopeless tiiat hr
should liberate Scotland, retired to s
hut, and threw himself on a heap o:
straw, almost overpowered with inenta
agony; and looking round, he saw i
spider endeavoring to awing itself by a
thread from one beam to another. De
feat seemed but to add vigor to its
efforts; and at the eighth attempt ii
gained its end. Bruce rememberer
that he had been defeated just sever
times. He considered the occurrence
a presage of bis own future success
lie called his followers around him
inspired them with fresh courage, am
released his couutry from the grasp o
the oppressor,
Helen,, the most beautiful woman o
her time, having been prevailed upoi
to abandon her husband, by Paris, th
Trojan, and fly with him to Troy, tho
Trojan war, which lasted ten years,
1 1 and resulted in the destruction of Troy
was the consequence. Greece sent
one hundred ships and one hundred
thousand men to recover her; and some
of the most renowned warriors of anti
j quity were engaged in the enterprise.
This woman was enticed from her hus
band—in itself not a very uncommon
event —three thousand years ago, and
thq world, since that time, has been
repeating the story. It was upon this
subject that the greatest Greek and
Latin authors wrote inspirediy. Homer
I and Virgil found in it their theme, and
j thus this little occurrence, like the little
breeze playing in the harp strings,
awoke melody on those human lyres
that charms the w hole world of soul.
44 Overlook nothing,” was the motto
of Talleyrand. The gnat may sting
the lion to madness, and the smallest
breath of air blown into a vein, will
extinguish life’s etherrn lamp, as sud
denly as a cannon-bad. in the heart.
An iron pike has been driven into a
i soldier's eve and through his brain,
and yet the wound has not proved:
mortal. Put the great anatomist, Spi
gelius, gathering U p {he fragments of a
broken glass, after his daughter’s wed
ding, scratched his finger slightly, and
death was the result. There is a subtle
poison, so deadly, that if a single atom
oi it he placed in the system, it instant
lv contaminates every fibre ofthe frame,
and palsies the heart. And thus it is
i with our interior life. It may be ione—
culated with a virus so minute as to
escape our uotice, wrapped perhaps in
a single word, but which may empoisonr
our days.
Nothing, therefore, is so much a
tride that the greatest limy not derive
advantage from it. Nothing is so small
as to be beneath our notice. We*
would not have men constantly occupy
ing their minds with little objects, and
drawing from them mighty inferences.
It is the province of small* minds to
magnify small matters; but it is also
the province of large minds to give
small things their legitimate place, rc
membering that the richest gem is but
little larger than n grain of sand, and
that the whole globe is composed of
j atoms.
t.■
I Female Kin cation. —It was a judi
cious resolution of a father, as well as
a most pleasing compliment to his wife,
w hen, on being asked what he intended
to do with his girls, he replied, l in**
tend to apprentice them all to their
excellent mother, that they may loam
the art of improving their time, and be
i fitted to become, like her, wives, mo
thers, heads of families, and useful
members of society.” Equally just,
but bitterly painful, was the remark of
the unhappy husband of a vain,
j thoughtless, dressy slattern: “It is
hard to say it, but if my girls are to
have any chance of growing up good
fin- anything, they must he sent out of
the way of their mother’s example.”
Ladies, observe!— A young lady
from Philadelphia has made her ap
i pearance as a student in one of the
I Lecture Rooms in Boston. Tho Mo
dioal Journal of Boston speaks thus of
this new candidate for medical honors:
44 Miss Blackwell made her appear
ance about two weeks ago. She re
gistcrcd her age at twenty-six, and her
tutor as Prolessor Dickson of South
Carolina, now Professor of Theory and
j Practice of Medicine in the New York
University. She comes into the class
wit’u great composure, takes oIT her
bonnet and puts it under the seat,
i exposing a line phrenology. She
takes notes constantly, and maintains
throughout an unchanged countenance.
I he effect on the class has been good,
and great decorum is observed, while
she is present. She wrote a capital
letter when she was admitted, and
brings recommendations from eminent
physicians of Philadelphia.”
Singular Courtship.— l>ea. Mar
vin, of Connecticut, a great landholder
and an exemplary man, was exceed
ingly eccentric in som of his notions.
His courtship was as follows: Having
one day mounted his horse, with only a
sheepskin for a saddle, he rode in front
of the house where Betty Lee lived,
and without dismounting, requested
Betty to come out to him. On coming,
he told her that the Lord had sent him
to marry her. Betty replied, 44 The
Lord’s will be done.”
Abby I* olsom. —In a Jate speech at
Tremont Temple, Boston, Abby Fol
som stated (he following facts, relative
to her early history. She said she was
the youngest of thirteen children; that
her father was once w ealthy for an in
habitant of an inland town in New
Hampshire; that he once advanced a
consul rable sum for public use to the
selectmen of the town, for which they
gave him an acknowledgment, by w hich
they were held individually liable for
the re-payment ofthe loan; that they
afterwards got him drunk, and while in
that state induced him to tear up and
destroy this security. In this way he
lost ail his property, and became very
poor. His sons sought their fortune*
in the south and west, leaving Abby
and her sister to support their father
and mother as w ell us they could. Tho
house and other property was seized on
execution. Abby resisted the officers,
and obtained help to such an extent,
that it was necessary to call out the
militia company of the town to enforce
the law. 'l*he family were then turned
out of their old home, and neither
father nor mother recovered from the
shock. Hence arose Mrs. Folsom’s
antipathy to legislatures, laws, courts,
and officers. In speaking of these
events, she loses all command over her
feelings, and falls into maniac ravings.
Gov. Young, of New York has par
doned I£9 convicts during the past
year.
New 'papers. —A bill has been intro
duced into the Legislature of New
Jersey, 44 for the preservation of news
papers,” which authorizes the clerks
of the counties to subscribe for, sad
preserve in bound form, all tho news
papers published in ihcir several coun
ties. The advantages which must
result from this measure are too ap
parent to require comment, for news*
I papers arc the true chronicles of the
times.