Mr. VAN BUREN’S LETTER OF
ACCEPTANCE
Gentlemen; I Iravc had the honor
to receive your letter, giving me official
information of the proceedings of the
l)utrain Conveuti >n. The composition,
character, and proceedings ofthut body,
as described by you. and the conces
sions o! feeling. and, to some extent, of
opinions, also, on the part ol its mem
bers, which enabled them to unite their
exertions upon a common, and, to the
country, a vitally important question,
show it to have been governed by a
pure and loftv patriotism, and demand
from me a grateful acknowledgment for
the e.vprersion of confidence you have
communicated.
My position, in regard to the Presi
dential election, is a p culiar one: and
it is due to me, that the knowledge of
it should be co-extensivc with that of
every material step I take in the can
vass. In 1441 1 announced tny deter
mination to continue in retirement for
the rest of my life; and tny earnest de
sire to da so has been undimiriished and
invariable, from that in mieut to the
present. I declined, respectfully but
explicitly, numerous offers from my
friends in other States, to prom Re my
nomination at the late Baltimore Con
vention; and in the same spirit, refused
permission to the New Vork delega
tion to present my name to tli it body,
under any circumstances whatever.
The refusal would have been equally
(decisive, if it had been certain that they
nud it in their power to carry their
friendly wishes into effect. Tile New
Vork delegati »n to the Utica Conven
tion requested my opini ms, in regard to
the obligations imposed upon them by
the Ballon >re nouiina’ions, and the
constitutionality and expediency of a
prohibition, by Congress, of the intro
duction oj slavery into territories now
free Irorri it. I hey also asked my con- 1
sent to the use of my name, by the
Convention, as its candidate for the
Presidency. I cheertuilv gave them
the opinions they desired,’ but declined
the last request absolutely. That they!
sincerely desired to respect my wishes
in this regard, I hove never doubted.
But the Conventi m were of opinion,
that the use of my name was necessa
ry, as well to ena de the I)cm icracv of
New Vork to carry forward, with a
reasonable prospect of ultimate suc
cess, the great principle for which thev
contended, as to sustain themselves in
the extra uduiary posiliou to which they
have been driven by the injustice of
•’hers; and tSkat the relations which
hod existed s i long between us, gave
1 e a r s» to use it, not only
wit i >ut n y c mseut, hut against my
no n wishes. Entertaining these
views, they decided to nominate me,
an niUed to giv*? me the usual notice
of their proceedings.
d,dn )t feelmv
“j v f« e h
r»pMted <h |mbl C
J^:r^rr^y e ;T\“*
brought before lb, e
this position, I shall ie myself honored
by the support of an a en
lightened and pitriotic, and so devoted
to the maintenance of the great princi
pie we contend for, as that in whose
behalf you* have addressed me.
1 have examined and considered the
platform adopted by the Buffal Con-
veotioo, as defining the political creed
of the “Free Democracy," with toe at-1,
tefcuo* due to the £ra*« eusoocts under i
THE NORTH STAR.
i which it i» predated. Ii breathes the
spirit, and presents a political
chart which, with the explanations I am
ab ut to make, I can, in good faith
adopt and sustain.
1 In regard to the chief topics of the
resolutions, it is not to be doubted, that
the present unprecedented movement
of the public mind infthe non-slavehold
ing stales, upon the subject of slavery,
is caused mainly by an earnest desire to
uphold and enforce the policy in regard
to it, established by the founders of the
Republic. That policy, in addition to
the prospective prohibition of the for
eign slave trade was—
-Ist. Adequate, efficient, and
secUritv against the extension of
into territories where it did not practi
r cally exist.
2nd. That in the language of your
own condensed and excellent resolution,
Slavery, in the several States of the
Union which recognize its existence,
should depend upon State laws, which
cannot be repealed or inoditied by tne
Federal Goverment; and—
3d. A spirit of considerate forbear
ance towards the institution, in locali
ties where it was placed under the con
trol of Congress.
By a wise observance of this policy,
we have, until recently, been able to
neutral ze the inju 1 i s lendencies of an
element of discord, more dfficult to deal
with than any to which our institutions
are exposed. But unhappily for the
present hannony, and posihly for the
i future welfare, of our beloved country,
a pretenison has been recently set up
by our bret in n of the slaveliolding
states, in regard t the first branch ot
this policy, so inadmissible upon prin
i ciple, and so revolting to our feelings,
as to produce a rush of public senti
ment towards the point of resistance,
which, with a population so considerate
and so staid as ours, is never seen,
’except when a conviction exists
t rnt the honor and safety of the country
are ut stake, and then, always. Attain
*»f events, all tending to the same gen
eiul end which have, lor a few years
i past, followed each other in rapid suc
cessi *n, has raised this feeling to an
elevation hitherto unknown, and pro
duced resolves which it is not in the
power of individuals to induce the peo
ple to recede from. The constitution
j ulity, the justice, the humanity and the
i expediency of. Hie ground they have
taken, ore all so clear as to preclude
the possibility of a continued diversity
of opinion or action iu the nou-slave
result
from this conflict of opinion between;
us and those who are, unhappily, our
opponents —if their pretensions arc per-
sisted in—are known only to thatomni-
j scient and kind Providence which has
j hitherto protected our country and its
institutions from the dangers which have!
threatened them.
The claim set up by our Southern
brethren, is p departure from the plat-
I form raised by our common ancestors,
at a period when the chain of our Un
ion was the brightest, and the fraternal
feeling between the States that com
posed it, the strongest. It comes upon'
the back of a series of events well eal
culated to awaken, ait the North, that
deep, and, as it respects ourselves,
overwhelming sensation in the public;
mind, to which I have referred. A
brief review of them, at a moment so
critical, cannot fail to he useful,
i Tne further condition of the respect
ive States, in roga'd to the probable
continuance or abolition of slavery,
were correctly foreseen at the forma
tion of the government. Those of the'
old thirteen which are now exempt from
it, acted under a confident anticipation
that they would soon become so; whilst
those of the number where slavery still
exists, would not look forward to an
equally favorable result in regard to
th emselves. It was, theref >re, u r ell
understood at the adoption of the Con
stitnti »n, that although a large and
hig ily respectable portion of the mem
bers ol the confederacy would probably
lor a long, certainly f ir an indefinite
period, remain slaveholding States, a
majority of the States would be non
slaveholding: and that a constitutional
preponderance in t ie federal govern
m mt would be thus secured to the'
latter.
To make assurance of this result
doubly sure, the sluveh tiding States
themselves were prominently active in
a measure—the ordinance of 1737—hv
which six new' states were first designed
to bp, a id five actually were, arraved
on the same side. These, added to’the
seven in which slavery had been, or
was expected to be abolished, would
make the division in this regard, twelve j
to six. I ue evidence we possess of
the circumstances and dispositions of
the times, warrants us in assuming that
no on*», at that day, anticipated that
this difference in the respective condi
tions of the States,in regard to slavery, j
would ever be overcome or neutralized,
by accessions to the confederacy of new
slaveholding States. Yet, in the brief
period which has elapsed—we may well;
sav brief, when viewed iu connection
with such great results—wre have wit-;
neased the additi >n of nine slaveholding
and only three non-sl vaeholding states
to the confederacy, beyond those which
were provided for before the adoption of
the C institution, making them to stand
fifteen to fifteen. The preponderance
originally secured to the mn-slavehold
ing States, and with a knowledge of
which they assisted in investing the
institution io the States, with the privi
leges and guarantee# of the Constitu*
tion, has thus been annihilated. Theee
facts cannot be controverted or con
cealed, end when once fully understood
end appreciated by the people of the
noo-elaveholding States,they oust have
a controlling iadeeaoe over their fbw
right is of no sex—truth is of no color— god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren
j tore course. Toe emotions they hav
already excited, ought not to surptis
intelligent and ingenuous mind* of au
quarter.
But this is not the only, nor even thi
most repulsive view which we ar
compelled to take of the preseot pre
tensions of our brethren of the slave
1 holding States. Slavery is now pre
I sented in a livery it never wore before
j On every previous occasion when then
ha# been a conflict of opinion in regari
to it, the question has only been, hov
j far the policy of 17d7 should he car
ried out by prohibiting or restricting Ur
I extension of slavery into territory
which was, at the time, subject to it:
introduction. Most of the territory o
1 the United States which was thus situ
ated, save the State or.lowa,which wa:
excepted by the Missouri compromise
has been converted into slave States
and admitted into the Union as such.—
Now, for the flrst time, the attempt i<
made to permit the introduction of sla
I very into territories which are now fret
from it—territories from winch it was
expelled, within the last fifteen or twenty
years, by the express and solemn ac
of their former government and peoplt
—a government and people with whom
in respect to the attributes of freedom
ours could not brook a comparison.
Nor is this its only or its worst fea
tore. In annexing to our Union Texas
an expensive slave State, covering ar
area cupahle of being lormed into rnan\
more such States, de became involvec
in a war with Mexico, which clairncc
dominion over that State. The terri
tories in regard to which the queslior
I is now made, are among the conquests
j of this war. It is, therefore, in effect
whatever may have been the origina
objects of this war, an appeal to the in
habitants of the non-slaveholding stater
to sanction the extension, through oui
instrumentality, of slavery into territo
ries, which the United States have, ir
fa<-t, acquired by the sword, hut whicl
others had relieved from that great evil
Such a proposition need only to be
stated, to ensure its prompt rejection by
the non-slavebolding States.
Upon what grounds is it attempted tc
i sustain a principle so repugnant to oui
feelings, so destructive in our views tc
our national character, and so tgeil
calculated, if successful, to cloud the
glory of this great republic? That there
should be diversities of opinion.. And
feeling upon the subject of sleyejSfjgSfe
tveen us and our Southern brethrei^is
Thu Ht*4i4!glh of
to the institution, has
very truly stated on the floor of the 3E£P
ate, by a very distinguished Southern
statesman. The people of the North
could no* overcome this aversion,if they
would; and they cannot desire to do so,
because they religiously, believe that
the highest earthly interest*? of man arc
based on its permanency and ultimate
universality. At the South the feeling
is very different, because the culture of
their minds and dispositions and the
force of habit, have had an opposite
tendency. This known, and for a sea
son, at least, incurable diversity of
opinion and feeling, should beget a
spirit of conciliati »n, and inculcate mu
tual forbearance in speech and action.
This duty has doubtless been occasion
ally lost sight of on both sides; but it
cannot be denied that the departure
from it has been the greatest on the
part of our Southern brethren.
No one will venture to insist that it
is, at this day, either expedient or right
to originate slavery in territories that
are free from it, if it can be properly
prevented. But it is insisted that this
cannot be done in the case under con
sideration, and under the form pro
posed. First, because the Constitution
does not give Congress the power to
prohibit slavery in the territories; and
that, consequently, the great number of
acts for that purpose which have been
passed for the last sixty years, with
general assent, were but so many in
fractions of the Constitution.
All will remember the solemnity and
rapidity with which State after State, at
the South, in succession, announced
this doctrine, and the acrimonious ve
hemence with which their conventions
denounced political proscription, in the
form of political exclusion from the
offices of President and Vice-President,
of all who refused to adopt it. But it is
already apparent that differences of
opini n upon this important subject can
not be settled by vehement assump
tions, nor conciliation in regard to it,
prompted by denunciation. In our coun
try such difficulties must be solved by
appeals to the tests provided by the
Constitution. For the rectitude of our
motives, and the correctness of our
conduct, we are responsible, on earth,
to the opinion of the civilized world,and
hereafter to a power that is greater than
all.
The question of the constitutionality,
the gravest of all objections that can
be made against a public measure, has
just passed through the ordeal of publio
discussion, and the doctrine in question
has been so thoroughly rejected and
condemned by the voice of the nation,
that it is no longer necessary to spend
words in refuting it.
Two circumstances have, however,
occurred, which, though not necessary
to its overthrow, give to that overthrow
a sanction that entitle them to notice.
It now appears that, twenty-eight years
since, at the time of the Missouri com
promise, Mr. Monroe, then President, t
a slaveholder, and elected from a slave
holdiog State, submitted this very ques
tion, save oaly that it was then applied
to slave territory, to a cabinet com
posed, cm eng other great men, of such
giant intslloef from the rfaveboldtng
Staten, an Crabbed, Calhoun an
Wirt, the letter the lewafteer of the
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1848.
ly of opinion that Centres? did posse*:
the power in question; ai.d that th<
then president, a man who was ou tb<
scene ot action when the Constitutioi
was formed, concurring in that cpinioi
approved the bill. The document!
which attest these interesting circum
stances, are before the countrv, an<
ever y one will judge for himself of theii
claims to credence, considered in con
nection with what has been said upot
the subject by the survivor of the Cabi
net relerred to.
To bring the matter nearer to oui
own times, within a few days, upon th<
very heel of the recent discussions upor
this point, a bill containing this restric
tion—the very has, in part
produced this discussion—has passec
both branches of the national legisla
ture, and received the constituliona
approval of the present executive—ar
approval which it was his sworn duty tc
withhold, it he had not been satisfied
that all the provisions of the bill wen
in conformity to the constitution. Tin
present President, also a slaveholder
elected from a slaveholding stute, witt
a large portion of his cabinet in the
same situation, ha 9 given the highest
sanction to the doctrine wc contend foi
that is known to our institutions; ant
although he felt himself called upon tc
make an extra message, setting forth
his reasons lor believing that the re
strictions ought not to he applied to oui
Mexican ten itories, he dues not take
the slightest notice of the constitution
al objection on which so many southern
states have based their opposition totht
general measure. Tins branch of the
subject has been thus, and we hope for
ever disposed of.
It is further contended that slaves are
so far to be regarded as property as to
authorize their owners to carry them
into any of the territories, and to hold
them t ere, notwithstanding any act
which Congress may pass upon the
subject. It Congress have the consti
tutional power to prohibit slavery in the
territories, its laws place the subject on
the same footing there, as the state
laws do in the states. As well, there
fore, might the slaveholder contend that
he can bring his slaves into a state
which prohibits slavery, as that he can
bring them into territories where slavery
is prohibited Congress. f If his
slave runs away, and enters one of the
non-slaveholding states, he does not
therebjgfrcrgne de
livered claim oFroo persmi
tue of an ofthe constitu
tion, which constitutes one of its com
promises upon the subject of slavery.
1 his view of the matter was placed in a
clear light in the recent debates, by
one of the oldest and ino^t. distinguish
ed members ofthe Senate, when he in
sisted that the claim, on the part of the
slaveholders, though nominally to re
move their property, was, in reality, to
transport their laws into the territories.
One has, therefore, only to imagine a
territory governed by the various and
conflicting laws of thirty independent
states, to appreciate the absurdity of
the pretension.
But it is insisted that the prohibition
carries with it a reproach to the slave
holding states, and that submission to
it would degrade them. This is obvi
ously the principle, if not the material,]
ground of opposition to the measure that
is persisted in; and most assuredly, if
it were well founded, we would have no
just ground to take exception to the
earnestness with which it is sustained.
Let the objection, therefore, be fairly
and dispassionately considered. Very
erroneous opinions of the dispositions
of the northern people are entertained
by those, who think them capable of de
siring the degradati >n of any of the
states of the confederacy, whether they
be slaveholding or otherwise. They
entertain too enlightened a sense ofj
their own interests; they have too just
a conception of the true glory of the
confederacy, and ofthe extent to which
the humiliation of a part would tarnish
the lustre of the wh *le; and they are,
above all, too national in their feelings,
not to cherish a deep solicitude for the;
honor and welfare of all its in mbera.—;
If they could, therefore, believe that
the'success of this measure would draw
after it such grave consequences, they
would be am >ng the last to uphold it.—
If it can have such a tendency, it will
certainly not be owing to any want ofi
generality in its application.
The restriction will, of course, be
obligatory on all who settle in the terri
tories, from whatever State or country
they may have emigrated. They will
all, in this respect, stand upon an equal
footing. If any inhabitant of any of the j
non-slaveholding states, who removes
to the territories has his capital invest-'
ed in business transactions which are
not permitted hr the laws of the territo
ry, he must change the investment. —If
a slavehoider desires to rem »ve there,
he must dispose of his slaves, and em- 1
ploy free labor as bis countrymen and
neighbors did, when they retnovad to
different portions of the north-western
territory, and in doing so made them
selves prosperous, contented and happy.
Let us for a moment look at the char
acter of this measure, and compare it
with others that have gone before it.—j
It is a re-enactment of the ordinance of
1787, which prohibited the introduction
of slavory into territories which had
been ceded by several of the State# to
the United States. The difference be
tween the effects of the two measures,
consists only in the (act, that the terri
tory to which ths ordinance of V was
tpplied, was, previous to its cession,
subject to ths introduction of slavery;
whilst ths territories to which it is now
sought to hs apt’isd, had, tz the tfj;t
j of the cession to us, been already ex
empted from tt by law. Who first pro
claimed the principle which triumphe
i in the euactment of the ordinance c
ij 1737? Thomas Jefferson. Who pro
i moled and secured its passage throug
the Continental Congress? All th
1! distinguished and patriotic m*n wb
that year represented the slaveholdin;
i States in that body, without a solitur
i exception. Who gave to the measun
>1 his official sanction, by approving a bil
to carry it into effect, under the nev
government? George Washington.—
Within the last sixty fyeara, ant
d »wn to 1333, the same enactment ha
been again and again repeated, with thi
general concurrence of the Southeri
I; member?, and often through their par
ticular instrumentality. A full fifth o
the States of the Union has been organ
I ized as territories under its restrictions
j In respect to Ohio, the oldest of them
conformity to this principle in the ordi
nance of ’B7, was required, even in tbt
State constitution and government, ant
the bill giving the ordinance this appli
cation, was reported by a committee o
which William B. Giles, of Virginia
was chairman, and John Rutledge, o
South Carolina, a member. It was
passed in the Senate by a vote of six
teen to five, and among the aves w ill he
found the respected names of Baldwin
and Jackson, of Georgia, Breckenridgc
and Brown of Kentucky, Franklin ane
j Stone of North Carolina, Stevens,
Thompson, Mason, and Wilson Caiy
I Nicholas of Virginia, Sumpter of South
j Carolina, and Wright of Maryland.—
The States which have grown up undti
and in conformity to that ordinance
I have, in a very great degree, been set
tled by emigrants from the slavehoiding
States. Thousands of these hardy and
enterprising pioneers, many of them
among the most respectable of their fel
low citizens, for a series of years in
i succession, left their friends and neigh
bors in tltc slaveholding States for what
was then the far west, accompanied by
j their prayers and benedictions; it never
entering into the imagination of either
that in doing so they submitted to any
personal or sectional reproach or de
gradation. Prosperous and happy in
their new abode, they and their associ
ates, and the great enterprise they ac
complished, have been honored and ad
mired by ail who have witnes ed their
success. One of those very settlers,
after assuming and for many years dis
charging the responsibility of enforcing
the ordinance of 1787, and after enjoy
ing a large share of his country’s con*
fTdonce and respect In other form. 4, Whs
finally elevated to the Presidency, and
died in that exalted station. Another
highly distinguished inhabitant of one of
the territories, subject to the same re
striction, after having also, for a long
series of years, borne the responsibility
ot seeing to the execution of this now
derided ordinance, as Governor of the
territory, is, at present, the favored
candidate for the same high office, of
portions of the citizens of the slavehold
ing as well as of the other States.
In the face of facts like these, is it
possible that the application of this re
striction to New Mexico and California
can operate to tho disparagement of our
brethren of the slaveholding States?—
No impartial mind can, I think, regard
it in this light; and if there be any oth
er objections insisted on that are worthy
of notice, I am not apprised of them.—
None that are tenable, can, in my judg
ment, be offered. The measure is right
in itself; and what is right may be
done with ultimate safety. The pres
ent generation stand in the same rela
tion towards these very extensive terri
tories, in which the sages of 1737 stood
towards the north-western territory. If
we act as wisely as they did, results
not less glorious than those .which re
flect such undying honor on the policy
of that day. will follow the labors and
perpetuate the memories of th.>se by
whom it is now upheld.
The sixth resolution embraces the
subject of slavery in the District of Co
lumbia; and I observe in it a generali
ty’ expression, in respect to the time
when, and the circumstances under
which, it was the opinion of the Con
vention that it should be abolished
which has not been usual on the part of
the friends of immediate action. Most
reflecting and philanthropic minds live
in the hope, that they will one day see
slavery abolished, not only in that Dis
trict, but io the States also, in the latter
through the agency of the State govern
ments, to whom the constitution wisely
leaves exclusive power in the matter,
and in the former by Congress. I may
be mistaken, but I think I see in the
guarded language of the resolution,
evidence of an apprehension, on the
part of the Convention, that adiflerence
in opinion, to some extent at least, ex
isted among its members, upon the point
referred to, and of an enlightened and
truly patriotic resolve, not to suffer that
circumstance, if it existed, to weaken
the moral power of their unanimity on
the great question which had brought
them together.
My opinion, in favor of the power of
Congress to abolish slavery io the Dis
trict of Columbia, has been repeatedly
avowed, as well when a cand.date, as
while president; and every day’s re- j
flectiou has hut served to confirm my j
conviction of its correctness. lat the
same time, expreesde myself strongly j
against the expediency of exercising
it; and in a recent letter to the New j
York delegation at Utica, 1 referred to
my continued opposition to that mea
sure. The subject was only incidentally
introduced, and there arts, consequent
ly, but little cere taken, in regard to
the terms in which the suggestion was
made.
The form of expression which em
ployed has. it sppsrs, led many hop
m sad sent* uksq that!
the remark related, exclusively
.to the past, and was n»'t yiten
i ded to convey my present views on th<
i matter. This construction, though, per
haps, not unwarranted by the words cm
ployed, is, in fact, erroneous: and it i
due to truth, to fair-dealing, and to al
who take an interest in the matter, tha
the subject should now be placed in it
true light.
It is not to be denied that many o
the reasons which in 1837 and before
operated to produce the convictions
then expressed, no longer exist am
if, when writing to the New York dele
gation at Utica, I could have antici
pated what has since occurred, I shouit
have felt it my duty to discriminate
between the reasons which had passet
away, and those wtiicb yet remain
But when my letter to them was written
nothing could have been further from
my expectations, than that I should
ever again be a candidate for the presi
dency and, of course, it was not mv
intention to say what my conduct would
he on this or any other matter, if again
an incumbent of that place.
I have spoken, in a former part ol
this letter, of the three leading leatures
of the policy, in regard to slavery,
adopted by the Fathers of the Republic,
History, if true, must record the fact,
that the north has hitherto faithful!v
sustained her part, in the maintenance
of this policy, and in none more so thai
in that which inculcates forbearance or
the point now referred to. 1 wish t<
see the forbearance which has so loop
characterized her conduct in this mat
ter, sti 1 fartln r cot tinned. Approving
of the Platform which the conventioi
has adopted, and conscious, from mv
impressions of right and duty in regan
to it, that I shall be among the last t*
abandon it, I prefer not to connect oui
efforts to sustain it, with an issue which,
all must admit to be, in some degree at
least, affected by different considera
tions.
In my judgment, all that is necessary
to insure success, is dispassionate, but
steady and firm action. Let the great
principle we are now contending for,
be once more rc-estabiished in the
councils of the nation, and the institu
tion of slavery in the District of Co
lumbia will fall of itself. Other and
more important interests will intervene,
and induce the inhabitants themselves
to labor for its removal.
I must not, hlbwever, be understood,
either by what I now say, or by what
was said in my tetter to the New York
as repeating the
declaration thafT Would, if elected,
withhold my approval from a bill foi
the abolition of slavery in the District.
I could not now give any such assur
ance, for the reason, that the circum
stances by which the question is now
surrounded, are widely and materially
different from what they were when the
declaration was made and because,
upon a question of expediency circum
stances must control. At that time,
the apprehension was honestly enter
tained, that there was danger of a servile
war, in consequence of the extent to
which the agitation of this question had
been pressed.
Participating in the apprehension and
believing that such a declaration, in
advance of any action of Congress
upon the subject, would have a saluta-;
ry influence in allaying excitement, and
warding off* the danger which menaced
the peace of the slave-holding states,
I did not hesitate to make it. Whilst,
on the one hand, all grounds for this
apprehension have passed away, we
are, on the other, threatened with a
subversion of the spirit and character
of our government, through the suc
cessful encroachments of the slave
power. If, under such circumstances,
two branches of the national legislature
should decide that a due regard for the
public interest requires the passage of
such a law, I should not, if President,!
think it within the line of my duty to
arrest its passage by the exercise of
the veto power.
Among the difficult subjects that oc
cupied the attention of my illustrious!
predecessor, whilst I was a member of
his cabinet, and of myself whilst Presi
dent, that of river and harbor improve- 1
ments by the aid of the federal
government, occupied a prominent
position.
Whilst the conviction was very gen
eral with our slaves and others, that a
large class of them was deserving of
aid from that quarter, and that it could
be extended to them without exceeding
the prescribed powers of the g >verri
ment, all were strongly impressed with
a deep sense of the liabilities to abuse,
to which the legislation of Congress*
upon the subject was unavoidably ex
posed. The matter was one of frequent
and earnest conference between Presi
dent Jackson and myself, during the f
first two years of h«« first, and the whole
of his last term. The result was a con
viction that no better course could be
adapted than to approve such bills as we
were satisfied came within the class re
ferred to, and do all that could Le right
fully done by the Executive, to prevent
abuses by appropriation* for object* that
were not entitled to the aid of the Fed
eral Government. The appropriation*
for river and harbor improvements con
tained in acts of Congress approved
during o«r respective administrations,
will show tbs results of that coo vioitoo;
and I know of nothing that would pre
vent ms from pursuing the earn* oourse
if I should agnin occupy the office of
President.
The subject is one of vs* import
ance, and well deeerviog the attention
bestowed upon it by tbe Chicago Coo-
notion of last year. I have not be*
fcwTm. the letter sddre«ed by my i
ameoted friend. Governor Wright, i
that body, nut l tu strong*/ 4=4.
JOHN' DICX, Pr*usa*a.
WHOLE NO—37.
I
uvor«i.; sed by the view* he
expressed upon the general subject
Toe view, which I have for m. nf
years entertained in regard to the best
disposition by Congress, of the public
lands, have been receutly set forth in
my published letter to the “Industrial
Congress.” They were—
First, That Congress ought to act
upon the principle, that the U. States
have a greater interest in the early
settlement and substantial improve
ment of the public lands, than in the
amount of revenue which may be de
rived from them.
Secondly, That the accumulation of
large tracts in few hands, should be
discountenanced, and
Thirdly. That liberal facilities ought
to be afforded, for th»“* acquisition of small
i portions, by such of our citizens, wher
ever residing, as in good faith desire
to possess them as homes for them
selves and their families. These opin
ions were announced as far back as
whilst a candidate for the Presi
dency. I set forth, also, in my letter
to the Industiia! Congress, the recom
mendations I had w hilst President made
toC ongrcss.cnd the acts I had approved
to promote the policy I had avowed.
The general principles I have sustained
upon the subject of the disposition of the
public lands, arc in harmony with the
resolution of the convention, w ith this
difference: that whilst the convention
propose free giants of limited quantities
for actual settlement, the farthest that
1 had gone, w as to recommend grants of
portions ofthem, at prices little, if any
thing, more than sufficient to defray tho
expences of survey and location. The
policy to which 1 have so long adhered,
and for the success of w hich 1 have been
sincerely solicitous, makes tho eail\
and, U 3 far as practicable, substantial
settlement of the public lands, the prin
cipal, and the revenue derived from tho
sales ofthem, a secondary, and compar
atively unimportant object.
1 regard the question of revenue, as
only important, because it affords a
prospect of securing regularity, and a
gr eater degree of stability in the settle
meets. it a plan can he devised by
which these objects would, in ull rea
sonable probability, Lc us w ell effected,
as they can be by the exaction of a pe
cuniary' consideration from the settlers,
the relinquishment of that consideration
would, with me, bo no objection to the
measure. From a report of the Com
mittee on public lands, which has lately
been forwarded to rnc, it appears that
the sales of the public lands have been
pledged to thy public creditor* for one
of the loans of the last year. If this is
so, Congress will, w ithout doubt if any
plan for the free gift of any portion of
the public lands to actual .'■ettlers, should
hereafter find favor in their eyes, sec
that the objection arising from this
cause, be, in some proper way obvi
ated. Come what may, the good faith
of the nation must always be scrupu
lously maintained.
My opinion in regard to protective
duties and the best sources of revenue,
were very fully given in my litter to the
Indiana Convention in winch was
extensively published; and they are
the same now. I, on that ocasion, gave
my reasons for regarding the system of
taxation in force in the states, viz a
direct tax upon assessed property, as
more equal and equitable than a system
of duties on imports. I gave also ny
reasons for believing that duties on im
ports would for a long time continue to
be used, as the mode by which the fed
eral government would collect its reve
nues, in preference to a resort to a di
rect luxate n. Although the latter poli
cy is, I believe, steadily gaining in tho
public mind, its advance has not yet
been sufficient to authorize us to expect
its early adoption.
In the mean time the government
must have revenue foi its support, and
the very heavy debt which it ha**
recently incurred ought to be payed as
soon as practicable. I, r nd"r these cir
cumstances I acquiesce in the resolve of
the convention, that the means for these
purposes should be raised by a revenue
tar iff. I have deemed it duo to the con
vention, and to the occasion, to depart
thus much from the rule which 1 pre
scribed to myself in my letter to the
dustrml Congress, in regard «o linker
exposition of my opinion upon public
questions. 11 a ving done so, I shall,
for the rest, of the canvass, adhere to
that rule, and leave the whole matter ir#
the hands of the people, with whose dis
position of it all should be, and I certain
ly will be, satisfied.
I arn, Gentlemen, very respectfully
your friend,
M. VAN BI RKN
Bcxjamix F. Butleh,
Jostrti L. White, and Salmon P
Chase, Committee of the Buffalo Con
vention.
A Jottv Ltrr lnsects generally
must Scad a ii«*iy jovial life. Ti.iuk
what u must be to lodge in a lily f Ima
gine a palace of ivory or pearl, with
pillars of stiver and capitals of gold all
exhaling aueh a perfume as never
arose from human c*-nser? Fancy,
again, the fun of tucking yourself up
for the night in the fold* of a rose,
rocked to sleep by the gentle sighs of
summer air, and nothing to do when
you a* oka. bul 1 va *h y ounself sa a
dew drop, and fail to aoo cut your batf
cloths-'
Notice.
VttM. York \ntUM.irrry Society#
*i 1 a o r s j tec will meet ot
-j M \t. Sept. t-J, at th«
n 0:li UuiTalo Stiect.
r< ''il at T o'clock pre
c V.
<b NELL, Rce. S<*e.
Letter to t 'hrtn. F. Adams.
U- York, All?. 10th. 181 ft.
a <t. vjr-rx fr.m u 4ft am*, (Jutnr*/, Ma*.*.
honor to inform yon. ilia'
v.hi leit t:ie chair of the National Fro*
i. ur.v..'ltiou, ian tv In kJ at iiu'taio. aud ol
u 5 *6f3 Pr sidotit, we were ap
i< »:n nitt,u“ to apprise you that you
'a 1 .i tM>ri:nat* by the <b invention, a* it*
r •si.Ute t.»r the o:iie ot Vice-President ot
i i l :i;t :d State.*, and t<» solicit vour accept
ance of m:r!i nornmtuion.
i 0,.r personal knowledge of the objects,
r, and pruce dings of the (Contention,
il th 'n te '">ity of saying anything,
lit. p!a tip in tii *r of these points; and
o" t >i. al'O. that a simple reference to the
eoexnip'e 1 utnnttnity and enthusiasm with
v l principle* were proclaim *d and it*
t i'd it: s s/’l-Tted, H'dl be a sufficient jrju
indue you to accept the nomination
u h vc received.
e:e;h of the undersigned .cordially
1 this mtimeut. it is due to the State
1 *i r p- i t mted by one of them, tlut he
:-.i >i!l r* e. f v express it, since the sclec*
t >s ot i candidate tsr th Vice Presidency
wu- t .i t!ic lir.-t iii-tm.ee, accorded to that
a thus making you, in a peculiar sense,
i- i. on o:i tii ticket pnqtosui by the
ii t<i tie- American people.
W u- 'r. with high r. sped and esteem,
y<cir o.r-Jicnt sen i::ts.
Hi sjamiv F. IF tler,
Joseph L White,
S U.MCN IV ’ll ABE,
..M-iiiitcc of th- it:o:i:il Free Soil Conven
t. in Id at IJil I'lio, N. V.
MR. \DAMS VS REPLY.
j 1 ?<i i. 11. I'. II n.r.it, J. L, White, and
''.IV oai.nittee of the National
i r S.,,;r.j;i. ;t ;o j lull at HuiTalo, N.Y
(p iv v Aug. 22, 1818.
c’t.lV’M'm —1 have just received your
‘iie.iil !''Uer. •i;t; ri-")g rne of the great honor
ci.i •in by t!i oi.vention vv Inch von ropre
n. in teeiiu itMig iiicas its candidate for the
i,; i -i of ieo-Pro.s.dent of the United States,
and aao s- he.ting my acceptance of the nom
ination.
I i r p!v, p im.t sue to siv, that it had been
tn'. iio; an in. t-\g- ctatton to he able to act
in ill pr mt canvass as one of the humblest,
lint e ot tiiii least earnest and devoted ser
\.i: isol the gr "it cause in which we are
:i_Mged; hut .since t lias pleased tnv fellow
iif ;\«rs, and rspec.aliy tin* noble represeuta
the gr■■■at state of Ohio, to whom in
vo r I Mi r you parti uilarly allude, to call upon
m "i is? uii-Api •tially to iriys* If, to stand in
I mt ranks of the eontestj that I should be
"ir:r eam!. !a! lor the second office in the
i ni-i.i. a n not the man to refuse to acknowl
-1 i. ohiigation. nr to shrink by a moment’s
'.i A ti i. fimn the po.-t not less of dutv than
•r to whirl, they assign me. I accept
tii i e!i liiiiy ot the r.omiuntion.
i u lather-- ot tie r.'puhlic, nurtured in the
I t i- .ini! ot 1/1 •tv opened hv the lelorma
i. *i a 1 to illustrate by a practical example
Vm ne-.i in exei Hence of their cherished
i i. o.iv.-:a n-lit. 'i'o the general suc
<>■';!;<-;r *\p -.,m mi, comm -uc din 1770
1-u a.:-! m 1789, a lapse of marc
It t e '.,1 ry !i is >rnl* witness.
H d miiortiin it.-iy, th same period has also
«•‘v e.l tli<» rv.s i*n re of an adverse inthi
ac M a .tioiislv a I,noted at tllC outset, which
h 'h .s fir (lone much to qualify the benefi
r v.-'iieli have been attained from it.
tint v.hi dial li St seenv.al only a deflec
ti-:' --mi the path of justice in favor of vested
'i*' t vi v ii <1 class, has, hv degrees,
s i a:t :S !l t i !i s i wide a divergency that
th-’ ":i!v ekomo n<nv ft to the people of the
u.t i Sta:-s is mtlwr to turn hack, or else,
by g-'iag tons .rd, voluntarily to abandon the
ics with u hii-li tlu-ir fathers started.
T a “mauve is dearly presented, of the
1 "I slavery over the whole breadth
‘■ft:. North American continent, or the
u-;-t,«.n“e of the fundamental doctrines of
the I) daration of Independence. The two
things cannot c )-exist in the United .States,
a H :t' we may, we can neither evade
i. >r r 'use tin* issue made up for us. Not to
t i: is equivalent in my mind to deserting
a gr.il uoi.il, social and political truth, at a
iimm-mt vv nen every known rule of human
ft’::;,' would seem to do maud the complete
esia!. huv it of it over the minds of a free
pen;.!.'.
f-“ dings I nave read, again and
agi.e. trie pi.uform of principles laid down by
::i if iilhlo ('onvention. 1 hail it as the signal
I'. t. rn the path of tlie rcvolutmnarv
■it i's. as ihe (ra of advance iu the* theory
i I: d.-mocracv.
I !r nii'A hut two living antagonist
M-. -*s in the politics of the Unit al States.
'i li o'n: u iii'di sh -iters itself under t'ne cover
of lim.i.m foiv.*, and the other which draws
vi. i,,'v tio II human reason and human
s mp.uhy. Jo ill thos ■w ho have confidence
in th capacity of man f m s df-goveriimcnt, it
J 1 a source of great satisfaction tc
u o-A. ii it tin* p rio.l when tin* last of th(*s<’
p-.u'-ipirs will triumph m the United States,
ng.diy approaching.
i Ui' time it would he unjust tr
i any >ue:i a victory with anv feelingso
viy or ill will towards the individua
:u rs of ih losing side. The slaveliold
!I l the Union merits our sympathy
■vv i.le ns aggressive policy meets witl
v M'tance. for the time may ye
u to i'" who now regard the d 'clar
111 hi:o platform as a vindtctivi
i 1" 1 Hu-.r arcst interests, will con
1,1 ia, h r m be the preservation o
r ii.-t.i! ami political rights. >i;r
w, -h geographically defmer
'-a i min. u- ;r vviiii organiz'd com
1 p 1 F J a struggle to sus tan
j J r value in ev*»ry land
'''j' a *'t' wherever society j.
w.m i;,> the synonym' only o
1 1 ll blessingsw hicl
n l ‘-»i. most cm vainly he ex
''''hr ujmui the humiin r.i<*e.
a hail its appiw.ch not much f.i
r ,t i( a v >tous as t„ all t!„, 9e VN j,
mr.i•wr< g ud it portending nothing hv
<i v to tii ui" e.i s.
;i i.. g.- ii' n u, Willi «ontimciits of th
est r*,
our obedient servant,
u v; :.i s Francis Ada vs.
.’•ir. ZIuU- fetter of I)(M*]iii;ition.
Ji it. 11., \ugiis,t gs, lht».
,f y hi inv.letter to you of i!
f Jauii irv i.j*t. acc'-pt.'.g the nou.m.aiii
f-i Jb.— ui' y mad j by the oiivenlw
f d f u at lUdfih* oa th* »Oiti end gl>i
n i -,-r p ng. I expressed the tx.itlimc
t ..,t. iKiii.in trui;'d be more grateful
r imi I u ,g-, than io find the good ai
1 ol every party, l<< <o*;itil of thf* p* t
i. w.bi'di have heretofore dividi
i- ui it. lie -til. I iii uua jtUcui.oub a:
t floii to red. cm the (Jovcrmncnl
it. i *1 rstaicn from th r pion hto wlt«
v w gn-flv tor its support of II
i i ry, J Kiel further, whi nev
a 'V'.i.eiit nli.ll lie iii etc in good fail
I i a -i p irpiisc, i stiail he most pia.
‘b tb e -•-.ai of thus fr;ctnh» who hat
jdi- n n i.u b -fire tlt't jwioplc, U) ear
at hum ti> huutblist j/iivuU-M inti
1. i v. .ui wiii rally under such a banner.
i aJ‘ i' r- t 1 the liojk* that such a movi
ii .1 might y< t h fit my jurlgmei
flit move.ii -ut ha 5 been made, aud it uttl
u ii J e *if j:iiiwih'x to you, Rir, m
determination entirely to withdraw my nan*
from the li*t of candidates before the people
and to urae upon my friend* as I mm* cheer
"'My aid •Wrcrely do, a hcatty, energettf
®nd iinarrmon* t>f«irt of the ticket non*
i by the Buffalo convention of the Ttl
instant. 1 am a*ore that after what ha.
Steady been d< ue by others, it may seem j
w«uk of mi (wren urai ion in me thus format);
io withdraw and I should not do tt, were i
I not th «t I am repeati-dly inquired of boil
j verbally sod by letter, whether I am still i
candidate, and further that I sec my name Mil
regained in some newspapers m that connex
'on with th avowal that it would so reman
until Mr. Van Burcn had satisfactorily ax
seni»*i! in writing fo the platform of prinetplei
laid down by the Buffalo convention of the
?ith instant, and I had :n like manner with
drawn. Tie; former. Mr. Van Boren hai
already dime, and 1 now fulfil the latter. Ir
thus withdrawing from a position which tin
jartiality of friends, nearly a year since
assigned me, rather m the confidence of w iiai
I might do, than in consideration of aughi
winch I had already achieved, permit me, sir
to tender to you, end through you, to those
j with whom you have acted, my wamirsi
thank*, fin the words of kindness and encour
agement with which you have cheered me, ir
the difficulties and embarrassments of iny
position, for the sympathies you have expres
sed, and for the very flattering manner, ir
which my poor efforts in behalf of truth ami
freedom have been received by you.
And now, if I have a friend who, from
motives of personal regard, or any othei
cause, feels regret or disappointment at the
present position of affairs; let me entreat
j such an one, by every honorable consideration
which I can urge, to forget every such regret
and disappointment, and by the energy and
zeal with which he will now labor, manifest
to all, that his principles are of mure conse
quence with him than any personal considera
tion whatever.
in conclusion, permit me to assure you.
tli it the path of duly in this matter, has not
always been plain and obvious before me, and
when I have sought for aid in the counsel ol
friends, contrariety of opinions with which I
have been favored, has only increased the per
plexity of iny way.
The result to which I have come is that
which most favorably commends itself to my
own judgment. To all those who attach any
weight to the opinions of so humble an indi
vidual as myself, 1 most sincerely and
cheerfully recommend a hearty, energetic and
unanimous support of Messrs. Van Buren and
Adams, as the most consistent course for the
enlightened friends of Liberty to pursue.
At the same time, that I give this as my de
liberate opinion, 1 have no tailing accusations
lo bring against those who see the path ol
their duty in another direction. The cause in
which we are enlisted commends itself, we
trust, to the good of Earth and the God ol
Heaven; let not its advocates degrade it tt
the level where the hirelings of political pio
lligacy strive lor the destruction of every
reputation elevated above their own. Let m
one suppose for a moment, because 1 no long
er occupy the position which has hereuifort
been assigned me, and which 1 have though
could be occupied by another with better pros
poets of good for the cause, my zeal ha;
grown cold, or my desire for our success
abated ;on the other hand, si r be assured
and assure our friends, that whenever ant
wherever a word can he spoken or a deer
done, which can tell in favor of the grea
interests wc arc all so anxious to advance
that word and that deed, if within the com
pass of my feeble powers, is unreservedly a
the command of my friends.
With much respect, I am very truly you
oblig (1 friend. jfOUN P. lIALE
liox. S. Lewis. —Cincinnati Ohio.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 8, 1818.
To My Old Muster.
Thom vs Alld— Sir The long and inti
mate, though by no means friendly, relation
which unhappily subsisted between you and
mvself, leads me to hope that you will easily
account for the great liberty which I now
take in addressing you in this open and public
manner. The same fact may possibly remove
any disagreeable surprise which you may ex
pcrieucc on again finding your name coupled
I with mine, in any other way than in an ad
vertisement, accurately describing my person,
I and ollering a large sum for my arrest. In
thus dragging you again before the public, 1
i am aware that I shall subject myself to no
inconsiderable amount of censure. I shall
probably be charged with an unwarrantable
if not a wanton and reckless disregard of the
rights and proprieties of private life. There
are those North as well as South, who enter
tain a much higher respect for rights which
are meiely conventional, than they do for
lights which are personal and essential. Not
a few there are in our country who, while
they have no scruples agamt robbing the
laborer of the hard-earned results of his pa
tient industry, will he shocked by the ex
tremely indelicate manner of bringing your
name before the public. Believing this to be
the case, and wishing to meet every reasona
ble or plausible objection to my conduct, 1
will frankly state the ground upon which 1
justify myself in this instance, as well as on
former occasions when I have thought proper
i to mention your name in public. All will
agree that a man guilty of theft, robbery or
murder, has forteited the right to concealment
and private life; that the community have a
to subject such persons to the most
complete exposure. However much they
may desire retirement, and aim to conceal
ih' iuselves and their movements from the
popular gaze, the public havea right to ferret
them out, and bring their conduct before the
I' proper tribunals of the country for ltivestiga
i lion. Sir, you will undoubtedly make the
piopcr application of these generally-admitted
principles, and will easily s»e the light in
whieh you are regarded by me. 1 will not,
t therefore, manifest ill-temper, by calling you
hard names. 1 know you to he a man of
1 some intelligence, and can readily determine
the precise estimate win h I entertain of your
character. 1 may then foie indulge in lan
ginee w hich may seem to others iud.ioct and
ambiguous, and yet he quilt* well understood
by yourself.
1 have s -lected this day on which to address
ymi, because it is the anniversary of my
•I emancipation; and knowing of ao better way,
I a n 1 to this as the Ust mode of ctlebrat
j »ng that tiuly important tjvuiit. Just ten
v years ago this bsauUiul September mornuig.
«i yon bright sun lieheld me a slave —a poor de
d graded chattel—ir mnlmg at the souiid o|
j l your voice, l.imeui.ng that I was a man, and
wishing myself a brute. The hopes whieh 1
*r had in uiured up for w eeks of a safe and sue
h et safol escape from your griwp, wen* power
fully confronted at this last hour by darl
J clouds of doubt and fear, making my pernor
e thalte and my bosom to »*lh Uie heavy
contest between hope *"d fear. I have nt
wolds to describe to you the deep agony ol
>l soul which J experienced on that never to-be
l forgotten morning— (for I left by daylight
I was t iking a leap hi the dark. Th* pro* l
bt’itif's, so far ae I could Hr reason djetermim
them, w«pp stoutly against the undertaking
l The prefiminarieo and I ha<
adopted previously, all worked I
like one going ,to war w ithout weapons—ter
l chances of defeat to one of victory. One ir
whom I had confided, and one wbuwad pro
i; miv?d me assistance, appalled by at the
>1 tnal-hooT, deserted me, thus i#flhnthe re
sponsibility of sums* or failure soh ly with
myself. You, sir, can never know my feel
ings. As I lock back to them, I can scarcely
realize that I hare passed through a scene so
trying. Trying however as they were, and
j gloomy as was the prospect, thanks be to the
Most High, who is ever the God of the op
pressed, at the moment w hich was to deter
mine my whole earthly career, His grace was
sufficient, my mind was made up. I embraced
the golden opportunity, took the morning tide
at the flood and a free man, young, active,
and strong, is the result.
I have often thought 1 should hk e to ex
plain to you the grounds upon which I have
justified myself in running away from you.
i I am almost ashamed to do so now, for by this
time you may have discovered them yourself.
I will, however, glance at them. When yet
but a child about six years old, I imbibed the
determination to run away. The very first
mental effort that I now remember on my
part, was an attempt to solve the mystery,
i Why am I a slave? and with this question my
youthful mind was troubled for many days,
pressing upon me more heavily at times than
others. When I saw the slave-driver whip a
slave-woman, cut the blood out of her neck,
and heard her piteous cries, I went away into
the corner of the fence, wept and pondered
over this mystery. I had, through some
medium, I know not what, got some idea of
God, the Creator of all mankind, the black
and the white, and that he had made the
blacks to serve the whites as slaves. How he
could do this and be good, I could not tell. I
was not satisfied with this theory, which
made God responsible for slavery, for it pained
me greatly, and I have wept over it long and
often. At one time, your first wife, Mrs.
Lucrelia, heard me singing and saw me shed
ding tetrs, and asked of me the matter, but I
was afraid to tell her. I was puzzled with
this question, till one night, while silling in
the kitchen, I heart! some of tiie old slaves
talking of theii parents having been stolen
from Africa by white men, and were sold here
i
as slaves. The whole mystery was solved at
once. Very soon after this, my aunt Jinny
and uncle Noah ran away, and the great
noise made about it by your father-in-law,
made me for the first time acquainted with
j the fact, that there were free States as well
j as slave States. From that time, I resolved
that I would some day run away. The mo
rality of the act, I dispose of as follows I
am myself; you arc yourself; we arc two
distinct person, equal persons. What you
are I am. You are a man, and so am I.—
God created both, and made us separate, be
ings. I am not by nature bound to you, m,
j you to me. Nature does not make youi ex
istence depend upon me, or mine to depend
upon yours. I cannot walk ujmn your legs,
or you upon mine. I cannot breathe for you,
or you for me; I must breathe for myself,
and you for yourself. We are distinct per
sons, and are each equally provided with fac
ulties necessary to our individual existence.
In leaving you, I took nothing but what be
longed to me, and in no way lessened your
means of obtaining an honest living. Your
faculties remained yours, and mine became
useful to their rightful owner. I therefore
see no wrong in any part of the transaction.
It is true, I went off secretly, but that was
mure your fault than mine. Had I let you
into the secret, you would have defeated the
enterprise entirely but fur this, I should
have been really glad to have made you ac
quainted with my intention to leave.
You may perhaps want to know how 1
like mv present condition. I am free to say,
1 greatly prefer it to that which I occupied in
Maryland. I am, however, by no means
prejudiced against that State as such. Its
geography, climate, fertility and products, are
such as to make it a very desirable abode for
any man and but for the existence of slavery
there, it is not impossible that I might again
take up my abode in that State. It is not that
I love Maryland less, but freedom more You
will be surpiiscd to learn that people at the
North labor under the strange delusion that
if the slaves were emancipated at the South,
they would all flock to the North. So far
from this being the case, in that event, you
would see many old and familiar faces back
again at the South. The fact is, there are
few here who would not return to the South
in the event of emancipation. We want to
live in the land* of our birth, and to lay our
bones by the side of our fathers’; and nothing
short of an intense? love of personal fret doin
keeps us from the South. Fur the sake of
this, most of us would live on a crust of
bread and a cup ol cold water.
Since 1 left you, I have had a rich experi
ence. 1 have occupied stations which I never
dreamed of when a slave. Three out of the
ten years since 1 left yon, 1 spent as a com
mon laborer on the wharves of New Bedford,
Massachusetts. It was there I earned my
first free dollar. It was mine. I could sj>end
it as 1 pleased. I could buy hams or herring
with it, without asking any odds of anybody.
That was a precious dollar to me. You re
member when I used to make seven or eight,
and even mne dollars a week in Baltimore,
you would take every cent of u from me ev
ery Saturday night, saying that 1 belonged to
you, and my earnings also. 1 never liked
this conduct on your part —to say the best, I
thought it a little mean. I would not have
served you so. But let that pass. was a
link'awkward about counting money in New
England fashion when I first landed in New
Bedford. 1 like to have betrayed myself sev
eral times. I caught myself saying phip, for
fourpuice; and one time a roan actually
charged me with being a luuaway, whereupon
1 was silly euougb to become one by running
away trout him, lor 1 was greatly afraid he
might adopt measures to get toe again mm
slavery, a condition l than dreaded mure than
death.
I 1 sooo, however, learned to count money,
ss wdl as to make H, and pot on svrmtminpty.
1 married soon after leaving ou: in fact, 1
was engaged to b« maroyd before I left you;
aod instead of finding toy compsmou a burden,
she was truly a helpmeet. She went to live
at scrvjee, and I to work on the wharf, and
though we toiled hard the fiat winter, we
i uprer Hth! mere happily. After remaining in
New Bedford lor three rear*, I met with
f Wm. L!*>?d Garrison, a person of whom you
i hare fwiitjf as be is pretty generally
known among slaveholders. He put it into
my head that I might make myself scrvicable
to the cause of the slave by devoting a portion
of my time to telling my own sorrows, and
those of other slaves which had come under
my observation. This was the commence
ment of a higher state of existence than sny
to which I had ever aspired. I was thrown
into society the most pure, enlightened and
benevolent that the country affords. Among
these, I have never forgotten you, but have
invariably made yon the topic of conversa
tion—thus giving you ail the notoriety I could
do. I need not tell you that th< opinion formed
of you in these circles, is far from being fa
vorable. They have little respect for your
honesty, and less for your religion.
But I was going on to relate to you some-,
thing of my interesting experience. I had
not long enjoyed the excellent society to which i
I have referred, before the light of its ex
cellence exerted a benefiml influence on my
mind and heart. Much of my early dislike
of white persons was removed, and their
manners, habits and customs, so entirely un
like what I had beerf*used to in the kitchen-'
quarters on the plantations of the South, fair
ly charmed me, and pave me a strong disrelish
for the coarse and degrading customs of my j
former condition. 1 therefore made an effort,
so to improve my mind and deportment, as to)
be somewhat fitted to the station to which I
seemed almost Providentially called. The 1
transition from degradation to respectability'
was indeed great, and to get from one to the
other without carrying some marks of one’s
former condition, is truly a difficult matter.
I would not have you think that 1 am now
entirely cleai of all plantation peculiaiiti- s,but,
my friends here, while they entertain the
strongest dislike to them, regard me with
that charity to which my past life somewhat
entitles me, so that my condition in this re
spect is exceedingly pleasant. So far as my
domestic affairs arc concerned. 1 can boast of
as conifortable a dwelling as your own. j
have an industrious and neat companion, and
four dear children—the oldest a girl of nii.e
years, and three fine boys, the oldest eight,
the uextsix, and the youngest four years old.
The three oldest arc now g"ing regularly to:
school —two can read and write, and the other:
can spell with tolerable coriectness words of
two syllables. Dear fellows! they are all in
comfortable beds, and are sound asleep, per
fectly secure undei my ow n roof. There are
no slaveholders here to rend my lieait by
snatching them from my arms, or blast a
pro .d mother’sdoarest hopes by tearing them
from her bosom. These dear children are
ours—not to work up iuto lice, and to
bacco, but to watch over, regard, and protect,
and to re?r them up iirUte nurture and admo
nition of the gospel— to train them up in the
paths of wisdom and virtue, aocLas far as
we ca* tsmak«*hsm ukefof 4. tiMma and
to themselves. Gh nover
>rs to me so compUddy an agoul of holf,
as when 1 think'of aftdkuik iifftn ray~leat t
children. It is t|ten that my feeTmjga rise
above my control. I mcanfPto have said more
wiih respect to my own prosperity and happi
ness, but thoughts and feelings which this re
cital has quickened, unfits me to proceed fur i
thcr m that direction. The griin horrors of
slavery rise in all their ghastly teiror before j
me, the wails of millions pierce my heart, and
chill my bit od. I remember the chain, the
gag, ihe bloody whip, the deathlike gloom!
overshadowing the broken spirit of the fettered 1
bondman, the appalling liability of his being!
torn aw ay from w ife and children and sold
like a beast in the market. Say not that this
is a picture of fancy. You well know that I
wear stripes on my back inflicted by your di- j
rection and that you, while we were broth-;
ers in the same church, caused this right hand,
wiih which I am now penning this letter, to
be closely tied to my left, and my person
dragged at the pistol's mouth, fifteen miles,
from the Bay side to Easton, to be sold like a
beast in the market, lor the alleged crime of
intending to eseape from your possession. All
this and more you remember, and know to be
perfectly true, not only of yourself, but of
nearly all the slaveholders around you.
3 i
At this moment, you are probably the guilty
holder of at least tiuce of my own dear sis
ters, and my only brother in bondage. These
you regard as your property. They are re-'
corded on your ledger, or perhaps have been j
sold to human flesh mongers, with a view to
idling your own ever-hungry purse. Sir, I
desire to know how and where these dear sis
ters are. Have you sold them or are they
still in our possession What has become of
them are they living or dead And my dear
old grandmother, w hom you turned out hkean
old horse, to die in the woods— is she still
alive rite and let me know all about them.
If my grandmother lie still alive, she is of no
service to you, for by this time she must be
nearly eighty years old—too old to be cared
for by one to whom 6he lias ceased to be of
service, send her to me at Rochester, or
bring her to Philadelphia, and it shall be the
crow rung happiness of „.y life to take care of
hex in her old age. Oh she was to me a
mother, and a father, so far as hard uni fur my
comfort could make her such. Send roe my
grandmother! that I may w atch over and take
care of her m her old age. And my sisters,;
let me know all about them. I would tvrite
to them, and learn all I want to know of them
without disturbing you iu any way, but that,';
through your uurightoou* conduct, they have
been entirely deprived of U»e power to read
and write. You have kept them in utter
ignorance, aud have therefore robbed of
the sweet enjoyments of writing or receiving!
letters from absent friends and relatives.
Your wickedness and cruelty commuted in!
this icspect on your ow n fetlow-CTeatures, are;
greater than all the stripes you have laid upon
my back, or iht-us. It is aa outrage upon J
the soul—a war upon the immortal spirit, and;
une for which you must gtve account at the
bar of our eorumon Father aod Creator,
The responsibility which you have assumed
ta this regard is truly awful—and how you
could stagger under it these many yearn is
marveijon*. Your mind must have become
darkened, your heart hardened, your eot»-
•rience scared and petrified, or you would
have long since thrown off the accursed kind
sought relief at tiu* hands of a sin. forgiving
God. How, let me. ssk, would you lookup-!
on me, were I some dark night in company
e with a hand of I —Hr J villains, to enter the
[i precincts of rour owe elegant dwelling and
i seize the person ef your own lovely daughter
i Amanda, and canj her off from your family,
i friends and all the loved ones of her youth
make her my slave—compel her to work, and
I take her wages—place her name on my
ledger as property—disregard her personal
I rights—fetter the powers ot her immortal soul
r by denying her the right and privilege of
learning to read and write—feed her coarsely
r —clothe her scantily, and whip her on the
I I naked back occasionally more and still more
I horrible, leave her unprotected—a degraded
r victim to the brutal lost of fiendish overseers
who would pollute, blight, and blast her fair
soul—rob her of all dignity—destroy her vir*
I toe, and annihilate all in her person the gra-
I ces that adorn the character of virtuous wo*
manhood! I ask how would yon regard me,
if such were my conduct? Oh the vocaau*
lary of the damned would not a fiord a word auf
ciently infernal, to express your idea of my
God-provoking wickedness. Yet sir, your
treatment of iny beloved sisters is in all essen
tial points, precisely like the case I have now
supposed. Damning as would be such a deed
on my part, it would be no more so than that
which you have committed against me and
i mv sisters.
I w ill now bring this letter to a close, you
shall hear from me again unless yon let me
hear from you. I intend to make use of you
as a weapon with which to assail the system
of slavery—as a means of concentrating pub
lic attention on the system, and deepening
their horror of trafficking in the souls and bodies
lof men. I shall make use of you as a means
of exposing the character of the American
church and clergy—and as a means of bring
ing this guilty nation with yourself to repen
j tence. In doing this I entertain no malice to
wards you personally. There is no roof un
der which you would be more safe than mine,
and there is nothing in my house which you
might need for your comfort, which I would
not readily grant. Indeed, I should esteem
it a privilege, to set you an example as to how
mankind ought to treat each other.
I am your fellow man but not your slave,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
P. S.—l send a copy of the paper contain
ing this letter, to save postage.—F. D.
10 s Our esteemed friend, C. H. Langston,
Esq., passed through Rochester last week,on
j his return from Saratoga and the East, home
watd. Mr. Langston looks to be much b«ne
i fitted by the tour, and his friends in Ohio will
be pleased of this fact when he reaches Chil
licothe.
We regret that we did not get the oppor
tunity of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Watson, who
also passed through this city on their return.
The Sable Brothers of the Smoky
City.—A new troupe of gentlemen from
Africa,*’just organized in this city under the
name at the head of this paragraph, are en
tertaing full houses at the Eagle. A live
kankes and a beautiful little dancing and
singing girl, are attached to the troupe, and
name most acceptable contributions to the ei
the Eagle, with its capacious
Ipprwneuts, its it le-cream and beautiful foun
|bm MW, IBS its music and dancing above,
Hftents drawing attractions for these warm
evenings which it requires some philosophy to
resist.— Pittsburg Tel.
There is everywhere to be found those
mean enough for anything, and Pittsburg has
her share of such vile creatures as well as
i other places. We can foim no other idea of
such wretches, than midnight rowdies, who
would knock a man down in the dark, and
i pick pockets.
j Men who can devote themselves to the
cowardly purpose of sporting over the mis
eries and misfortunes of an oppressed people,
is contemptible enough for any undertaking,
however dishonorable. However comically
the Irish, or any other oppressed class of the
while race, may be represented, there is
always some moral or elevating characteristic
connected with it; but never in any instance
in this country has the African character been
represented but with disparagement and ma
lignity—the sole intention being, to foster
prejudice against this class of American
citizens.
Even in the drama, when the poet evidently
intended, as the language shows, to preseut
the Moor of Venice as an African, the re
fined sensibility of American taste can only
permit biin to be played white
An African's Idea of the Creation of
Man.—King Yardoo, of Goulah country, j
during a recent palaver with one of the Li
beria missionaries, gave him the following
account of the manner in which God made
man
“First, he came down in the morning,)
worked all day long making while men in
America, and gave them plenty of good 1
sense. Then he came along iu the dark,
about midnight, and made we countrymon all
black, and because he wanted to get home
before breakfast, he never waited to give us
any sense at all, but told us to make war,
raise rice and caasada, eat durnboy and pep-
per, that is all.”— Ex. paper.
This is as reasonable a comment as some
of the pro-slavery theologians (diabologians, j
we should say,) give os upon the doctrines
ot creation, and a just conclusion drawn from
the idea obtained from King Yardoo and bis j
people, of the God whose justice and holi
ness American divine* and Spanish pirate*
teach them, instituted slavery and the infernal
aiavetrade.
Killed. —A colored man was killed on
Wednesday by driving from the railroad!
bridge over the Brandywine, bis head striking j
a slake.
Movement foe Clat.—The Boston Tra
veller says, We hear it stated that a nun*-
her of the friends of Henry Clay in thin city
talk of making n demonstration in his favor
for the Presidency.”
New Yoee —The Utica Democrat given
a list of forty nine Democratic papers in tfea
State of New York, which repudiate Get.
Cats, and support Marlin Van Buren for
I PresKfont.
The New York Tribune in ready to oome
j wt for Taylor an noon as ha names set for
I Free Soil.” Wait a liUk lodger.”
TO CORRES POMOCNTB.
The receipt p |m I j fTrtli ilr
mmk their Wherrtpliiw ttewcgfc *e Peel Ofce,
will he e in rfimr rj
j hee mw te head. It ail aha hi aaderatood Mat
*e paper eiU he awl fa* hew
Wttev, withoee the w<*Ma aa* wprnae f
Rarea—aae—fra a« jhtoa^j—,
S-. Mewthea, Maw, Thi «w
reded. Credited to fie. 7t.
Q. 8 Peterbote «rßeceived
e Liberia* Cofewfea ttoa.
d Every day brings to tbs light, some new
r proofs that the Liberian Colonization scheme
is a grays fraud sad imposture. It is scarcely
credible to what an extent the people of this
i country have been duped and deceived by
f those engaged in that nefarious project. Two
1 weeks since, an article appeared in the col
-1 unins of the Noith Star, drawing attention to
f the proceedings of the Rev. J. B. Pinney,
y first Missionary and afterwards Governor of
e the Colony. It now appears that much—very
1 mu ch that might have been said, was not said
1 in that article. The Liberator of last week,
copies from an article in the New York Day
r Book, details of the most extraordinary char
acter respecting the colony and its officets.—
J. B. Pinney of course comes in for a share
of the benefit, and what is here copied respect
ing him, is particularly recommended to the
careful perusal of the reverend gentlemen who
composed the Presbyterian Synod that reeent
ly met in this place; and they may probably
be induced to thi tk again before placing im
plicit reliance upon his statements. At the
time here mentioned, it seems that J. B. Fin
ney was advocating the cause of the colony. 1
Probably by that time the prospect of becom
ing Governor was present to his mind. The
writer (Dr. Bacon, editor of the Day Bookj
says:—
“In 1836, the editor of t!;.: iii> Tfook,
then making arrangements l v\ -t
Africa, in order to investlg it me
condition of the Liberian cu! y. ;l ope
rations and prospects of t ;o v •i.:/.alion
scheme, (of which he then was, at.d from his
early youth had been an enthtisiaMic admirer;
and advocate,) was introduced at his brother s
house to a person called John B. Pinney, who
had returned from Liberia, where lie had been
at first nominally a Presbyterian missionary,
and then abandoning that sacred cause, had
become a secular agent of the Colonization j
Society, with better pay, and
much better suited to his moral character.
Being very desixious of acquiring
the fullest possible knowledge of every fact
concerning the Liberian colony, and consider
ing himself eminently fortunate in such an I
opportunity to know the truth in a matter up
on which a great purpose of life, and even life
itself depended, he made this man his friend,
as he supposed,—at any rate treated him like
a friend, introduced him to gentlemen, I
passed many hours in conversation with him, j
for weeks seeking to draw from him the truth
in regard to the condition of Liberia, the char
acter of the colonists, the difficulties of coloni
zation, and the ultimate feasibility of the origi
nal scheme.
A few months afterwards, the writer of
this was in Africa and from the first day of
his landing on that continent till he left it. he
had evidence that all which he had so studious
ly learned Irom J. B. Pinney, was a mass of
the most absurd and abominable falsehood.—
one of the first things that he heard there in
speaking of Pinney, was, that he had been
notoriously actually insane during a large por
tion of the time when there resident, —that
he had been carefully watched for fear that he
might do himself some mischief. Friends
i and foes were alike agreed that he was a
thoroughly insane man.
The writer has now no recollec
tion of any particular in which Pinney told
him the truth in regard to Liberia, iu reply to
his anxious personal inquiries before going to
Africa, or in published statements rfead as be
fore mentioned i* Africa. Tfia|jrei|B uttim
portant partreulars w*» true Hr or course
probable, bat in all matters essential to a cor
rect qirprwssion of the cn«mto» ford character
of Liberia and the colmtfets, the falsehood was
uniform. The whole of the testimony was
recollected only as a he in the general purport
and in all particulars of any importance. On
this subject there was no difference of opin
ion among people in Africa acquainted with
his testimony. The only question was as to
the moral or intellectual causes of this mon
strous mendacity.”
It thus appears, not only that the Rev. .T,
B. Pinney had been guilty of fabricating the
grossest falsehoods respecting the colony
but that even while resident in Liberia, he had
been found to be insane, and had been care
fully watched for fear that he might do him
self some mischief.** Even while residing at
New Haven, where Dr. Bacon was first in
troduced to him, his behaviour had given oc
casion for a rumor that he was insane. It
appears, then, first that J. B. Pinney had
been detected in giving out, as one w ho had
been an intelligent eye-witness, and therefore
to be relied ui»on, statements respecting Libe-
ria, which were utterly false and without
foundation and secondly, that lie has at dif
ferent periods of his life, shown n.-elf to I*;
insane. Little more than th -eein to i
be required, to show that i. 'lif er tt*e j <tg
inent nor the veracity oi tie Reverend i/ui
tleman is of the most satisfactory character.
It may be rather an interesting question
whether the little stories with which he
amused the reverend fathers in this city, were
j“ works of fiction,” founded on fact. One
source of consolation is, that whether true or
false, they were of a sufficient harmless char
acter, tending simply to show, for the edifica
i tion of pious minds, that Providence had
j been very kind to Liberia.” Bah such hy
pocrisy is too gross It is difficult to contem
plate it without a certain degree of heart
sick ness.
i The following extract will afford some idea j
i of the condition of the colony and shows
what reliance is to be placed on the oft re
peated assertions which are found in Coloni
zation prints, that the colonists are happy and
proaperuua.
By a singular coincidence, it so happens
that exactly rune yean ago this afternoon,
July 11, 1839—the editor of the Day B<*uk I
left the colony” of Liberia for the last time, j
after a residence at Monrovia of seven months,
and in other parts of what is called Liberia of j
about a year, in other parts of West Africa of
j a liule more than a year. He first landed in j
I Liberia, February 4, 1837 and consequently
the whole penod between hie first and last
sight oflhalvety interesting country, was two
years, five months and one week. At several
times after ceasing to resute then-: he visited
i Monrovia, and made careful observations of
the condition of the people. He was slways j
welcomed by them with strong expressions of
delight, and of hopes that, he had curve back
to remain and resume the agdiral charge of
the colony and after his departure, he was 1
followed to the shore, with loud regrets that
be would not stay, and with earm-st entreaties
that be w.»old change bis determination.
Especially was this feeling manifested when
be left the colony’’ nine years ago to-day,
when some of the eokmiato followed hue
through the hushes down to the very beach
where he took the host which conveyed him
to the ship—heeeechutg him to stay and take
care ef them #ben they were sick and not
leave them to die, ae they feared they should
with the eeas attack of the dreadful disci tea
«f that pesufottttal ehmate. Berne of tbees
me* added, u many do when they pee any
body leaving the colony and fttupung to Ame
rica—“ Take me with you, lean t Uvn in
thi* miserable place, shall die here. Of
Doctor trte me with yea, sad I will he yner
amontstdo anything you my” Hem*
heard mote piteous expaomttos of donating
misery, or more heart-reading cries of sorrow
thag these which mingled in the letaettni
adieus of those poor exiles longing to return
r to their native land, the land of Slavery.
Whetl he fim left the colony and termina
e ted h» residence at Monrovia, he did so simp
f ly because bis usefulness as Colonial physician
s was obstructed and nullified by want of food
r sufficient to keep his convalescent pattern*
from starvation, and even to support himself
in health and vigor, and also by the cruel
treatment which the sick emigrants received
from the colonist-*, and by the nightly rob
beries perpetrated on theirlitile Mock of neees
sane* by the thievish Ltbenana. He was
himself robbed in repealed instances; and his
native servants beaten and abused in the most
shameful manner by the colonists, without
possibility of redress, s that it was difficult
to secure the attendance necessary to h» busi
ness and bis subsistence. When sick, he
found that his orders in regard to the invalids
were countermanded ami his treatment
thwarted by the negro agents ot the Society,
|in consequence of which, several of his pa
tients died while he was too much enfeebled
jby fever to leave the house to attend to
them.”
It is of the utmost importance, that facts
such as these should be known and extensive
ly published. The scheme of tylonnation,
is at best, even suppling all to be true that
1 its most strenuous supporters affirm respecting
it, the offspring of a most unchristian and un
reasoning prejudice. It is worse than eveu
that, however; it is the twin sister of slavery,
and is a plan fostered and encouraged by
slaveholders, by which they might increase
their unrighteous gains. It is objected, that
benevolent men lend the sanction of the»?
names to the scheme. Yes, but they are de
ceived. as many have be n, who arc now the
most strenuous opposers of Colonization.—
Every statement respecting Liberia, requires
to be scrutinized with the utmost jealousy.—
Further extracts will be given at an early
day, showing to what an extent the officers
and agents of the Colonization Society have
been implicated in the slave-tiade.—j. d.
Ireland.
That the recent attempt of the Iri.-h to
effect a violent revolution, and force a repeal
,of the union, has come to a most ineffectual
termination, at least for the present, is now
i beyond all question. The leaders are either
j arrested or are hiding in the mountains, and
the people dispersed. Discontent is not re
moved the causes of discontent are not
removed still no one who has any knowl
edge of the state of matters in that country,
could ever dream of the possiblity of any
other result to an attempt for their removal
by such means. It has proved to be nothing
more than a most mistaken and unproductive
expenditure of energy. All that can be said
to have been gained by this effort is, that it
will serve to attract the attention of the legis
lature to the redress of the peculiar evil*
under which Ireland suffers. And what are
those evils? If we except the temporary
i measures which unusual emergencies call into*
operation—measures which are doubtless oft
times unnecessarily harsh and stringent—the
most determined enemy to Saxon rule
will find it difficult to make out a case of very
peculiar hardship for Ireland—that is, a hea
vier taxation or a mure rigorous government
than falls to the lot of the other portions of 1
Great Britain. The miseries of Ireland
those of them that can be affected by legisla
tion, are more the effect of past than of pre
sent misgovernment. The Protestant esta
blishment, to which all are forced to contri
bute, either in the form of tithes or church
rates, is a monstrous iniquity, which is folk
not less severely by a majority of the people
of England and Scotland, than it is by the
Roman Catholics and other dissenters of
Ireland. A grinding taxation, the result of
long years of war and profligate expenditure,
pusses upon the laboring classes throughout
the kingdom; and aristocratic misrule has
done and is now doing its work to widen the
distance and to make more marked the dis
tinction between wealth and poverty. But
the peculiar grievances of Ireland are not so
I easily pointed out. That she has peculiar
and almost unparalleled sufferings, is a self
evident fact; it is also apparent that ninny of
those sufferings may be tiaced to prese. t
causes, the results of past misgovernment
thit some of them rnay lie traced to the
religious belief—some to the ignoranc and
the genius ol the people— some to abocntce
,Bin—ami some to the plan extensively
adopted by the landlords of paying the
lalsirers on their estates, by allowing them Us
squat on a small patch of laud, where they
may, if they have sufficient courage and iu
dustry to make the attempt, without capita!
or means of any kind, contrive to procure a
miserable subsistence. When this is said, it
is nearly all that presents itself in reference to
Ireland's peculiar wrongs and it is much
easier to say this, than it is to discover a
teinedy. The Protestant church establish*,
meat might be removed; there is out tko
shadow of a reason, aside from tho self-in
terest of the aristocracy, why it should gva.
tmue a single day the absenteeism might to
some extent be remedied and a better sys
tem of wages might possibly be enforced
but after all these reforms are brought about fc
(and it does nut appear to be wrthiin tf>P
power or the province of the English gov%
eminent, constituted as it is, to effect more,),
it is hut too evident that a beginning wjJJ,
scarcely have* U*u made tow aids the removal
of Ireland's difficulties. Something more,
than legislation i* wanted to effect this. Tito
j 'ruth is, (and tho attention of the hearties*
demagogues in this country, who, for end*
best known to themselves, have been endea
voring to arouse sympathy fur Ireland sod
enmity against England on this aide tho
Atlantic, is particularly requested to this
statement,) that the Irish do not pay a larger
—not even ao equal share of the taxes. In
proof of this assertion take the following
extract from Douglass Jerrold, whom do one
will accuse of having any leaning to the side
of anstocrecy sod kingcraft. In order to tho
hotter understanding of this paragraph, it
may be well to say, that at the last census,
the population of England was 16,000,000,
of Scotland 3,000,000, and of Ireland 9,000,-
000. Ireland should therefore, if the paid her
equal proportion of the taxes, furnish rathe;
lea* than ooe-third of the gross amount. Bo;
bow stands ihs case
“Oto of £58,000,000 of imperial taxatim
1 rereoaUy levied in the United Kingdom,
•atreelj move than £'4,500.000 to meed m
Lrehuid, Toward the royal a»*| Ireland
i coou-buted £8,085 in 1848, ««d y*
1 enjoys the full benefit of the fieet. She to
r charged nothing for the maintenance of our
f eeleoial eaubltshmeets, *he«fb the part**-
I paftse w their She dees ee* ftp
f any asaaaaad taxes, or alamp dutig* o*
t carriages or railway*; tl 4*l
t»x on soap, bricks, hop*. post horse duties
windows, servants. horses, carriage*; she ii
exempt from the property and income ux
li Is clear, then, that the Anglo-Saxon hai
not been guilty of fiscal injustice to Ireland.'
Douglass Jenold further says—
Nothing can be more false than th<
assertion that the trade of Ireland has de
clmcd since the union It appears from par
liam-’ntary return*, that the tonnage of ship
ping three years before the union w as 112.333
whde in 1*42, it reached 563,301, show inf
an increase of 436.371 tons. In 1*23. then
were no steam vessel* in the coasting uadi
of Ireland, hut in 1*46, which is the date o
the last <>rfiial returns, the tonnage entem
inward amounted to 579,335 since tha
pcitod. taere can he no doubt that the in
crease has been very considerable. It i« n
true that the fineu trade was destroyed by
the onion. It appears from Moreau s tables,
that from 17*1 to there were exporter!
67«,7‘.k(,72l var.is of linen; while trou
I*o2 to I*2l, the quantity was 832.403,h0i
yards, showing an increase of 153,605,
yards.”
From this it is plain that the ciy of repeal,
especially as it is used in this country, adopt
ed and fostered as it has been by some from
whom other things night hwe been expected,
w »rd with iut meaning. It is not proved
that Ireland is unequally taxed it is not
proved that rej»e il would he to her advantage
twdeed nothing is proved but the self-evident
fact that ih Irwh are discontented and have
cause for discontent, lint why clamor tor
repeal on behalf of the Irish until aouv* such
proof is adduced T Wer the county of K uit
to beco.a- I ke Ireland, it m titers not Iro n
wha’ cAuse, provid d it wen; not unequa
legislation. .v -rt■ --si i ;ke:i and unfortunate,
and were the men of'.hit cou.ity to set up a
claim that th» i icie it kingdom should Iw
restored, doubtl -s o ir patriots for other
countries would h dp to sw.;ll the gale, and
lend their lun_'s to shout Repeal. I his, how
ever, is not the way to benefit Ireland. I fie
laboring classes of lint country sutler in com
mon with the laboring classes in England and
Scotland. Their cause is one let them
work fur one object, and ilirir united efforts
cannot fail of success. Hut other means than
physical force must be used.—j. d.
Thr Practice and Theory of ’leaching, or the
Motives and Methods of good School-Keeping.
Hy David I*. Pag'.*, A. M. Puhlished by Mall
Dickson, Syracuse.
Babiugtnn Macauley begins a review of
a life of the celebrated Warren llastin ;s, of
East Indian notoriety, with the short, hut
explicit, testimonial of character—‘‘This is a
big, bad book and without giving the
writer an opportunity to say a word for him
self, he goes on, in his ow n inimitable and
interesting style, to give what be conceives to
be a more correct version of the doings
of that man, who certainly did not want
talent, though, if the account Macauley gives
of him he the true one, Ins principles were
sadly out at the elbows. I mean in this no
tice to do exactly the reverse of that reviewer
—say little, and allow the author, as be is
wdl able, to speak lor himself. He says in
the preface
This work had ils origin in a dr-sire to
contribute something towards elevating an im
portant and rising If the term
th ortj in the title suggests to any mind ihe
bad sense sometimes conveyed hy that word,
1 would simply sav, that I hoe not been
dealing hi the speculative dreams of tin clos
et, but in convictions derived from the reali
ties of the school-room during some twenty
years of actual service as a teach *r.”
The author thus makes good his claim to
an attentive perusal on the ground of expeii
euoe.
Bt» is there no other ground? The sub
ject is o icof the first importance. It is often
t(*o slightly cared for. The influence of the
teacher on ihe minds of those under his care,
incalculable there is, indeed, only one
relation—that of the parent, in w hich a more
powerful influence, for good nr evil, is exerted
am the minds of the young. Yet in how
any instances, is he who undertakes the
•f ork w anting in those moral, to say nothing
.of the mental qualities, that are calculated ti
itender his instruction useful! llow many
there are who take upon themselves the lofty
.responsibilities of teachers, without for o:k
moment considering whether or not they art
t n anv degree qualified. The author says—
The school is no place for a man wilhou:
(priueipi". 1 would say. that Xowh re it
there a p.:i«* l u a oan without principle."
.Each oneol’ os .1 ae would rightly consider,
is all the ti i t -Uer. .Some one or othei
is continually l .ong from us something thai
will be either to hi> advantage or his injury.
Yet it is true, that a school, of all places, is
the worst for a man without principle.”—
Such a teacher cannot fail to exert a most in l
junous influence upon his pupils, and in but
ir«o many instances incur the fearful guilt ol
dragging them down to his own miserable
level.
Teaching has never attained in the public
mind an appreciation at all commensurate w ith
its importance. The teacher has l*ecn paid
'With a niggardly hand, and littlucare has been
.taken to make sure of his coiri[>eteiicy.
Teaching (says ihe author) has by no
means received the emolument, either of mo
«ey or honor, which strict justice would award
in any other department to the talents and
exertions required for this. This having been
the case, most of the l>c*t talent has been at
tracted at once to other professions; or if ex
erased a while in tins, the temptation of mory
iucialive reward, or of more speedy if not
more lasting honor, has soon diverted it from
teat-ung, "here so little of either can be re
a izc in engafi.. a ;ue otlter department of
higher promise.”
Still, wnh all this discouragement, we do
find now and then an Arnold, a Franckc, and
a eslalozzi men full 0 f enthusiasm, and
who realized the importance of their profes
.lon, anj wl, “Hi study It was to de
vise plan* lor influencing aright the minds
of those under their care. Said Arnold, on
one occasion when he found htutself compelled
to expel pupil* from Rugby school for bad
oonduct “It is not necessary that this should
be a school of three hundred, or even fifty
but it is n< cessary that those w ho are here
should be Christian gentlemen.” jj ow
teachers there are who act under the idra that
their pupils should be ‘‘Christian gentlemen'”
*nd no wonder for w ho are our teacheig
A writer iii ihe Journal of Education says
Every stripling who bs* passed four yean
within the walls of a college—every younj
person who is conscious of hi* imbecility m
other business, esteems himself fully compe
tent lo train the ignoranc; and weakness ol
infancy into ait the virtue, and power, and
wisdom of rqaturer years—to fund a creature
fce!4eat Ut%t be a v*n has made, into the
intelligent and fewlfl* sovereign of the w hole
initiated crwtw —the interpreter .and adorer,
and alaioat the representative of Divinity.”
Th:* w a crying evil, for which a remedy
must be found, and that speedily. The first
and mo** apparent remedy m, th it none should
be employed as teachers, but those who are
thoroughly competent and qualified. Tocarrv
this into effect, a iwTood improvement would
be required, which would aUo operate as a
rr-me*dy—namely, that those who are thus
qualified should be more liberally rewarded
and honored. Pope's couplet, with an alter
ation of the idea, applies remarkably to this
rase;
laio* in the heart, breed rrmn in the brain,
I And (hew re< ipo>rallv ttvwr ayain.”
Had pay calls up mcomj>etent teachers, and
the incompetency of teachers has the very
reasonable effect of reducing the pay—for
who will pay a high price for an indifferent
article; or rather, who will say lhat a had
teacher is deserving of any reward
ifut the book It contains fifteen chapters
j—“ The Spirit of the Teacher; Rcsponsibil*
ity of the Teacher; Right views of Educa
tion; Right Modes of Teaching; School
Government,arc some, of the titles of the
chapters, picked up at rando n. This notice
is growing to a:i unreasonable length still,
the temptation is strong to make an extract
from the chapter of Miscellaneous Sugges
tions, which will serve to illustrate the spirit
of th" work and the mode of training the
author would adopt. Jfe says:
“Take advantage of unusual occurrences
to make a moral or religious impression.—
Example During the early part of the dnv,
there had been one of those violent rain
storms so common ujk>:i the sea-coast at lhat
season of the year. It is well known to the
observing mariner, that a storm from the
southeast never continues beyond twelve or
fifteen hours and when the violence of the
storm abates, it is a common remark of the
sailor, that the northwester is not long in
debt to the southeaster. Previous to this
change of wind, however, there is what is
expressively termed the lull of the storm
a period when the rain ceases to fall, the
wind dies away to a perfect calm, the barom
eter is suddenly depressed, the clouds hover
almost upon the face of the earth, shutting
out the light of the sun, and causing a cheer
less damp 1 o settle upon everything terrestial,
and a dreary gloom to enshroud the mind itself.
hen the w ind changes, these clouds ate not
gradually dissolved and broken up, so that
the eve can catch transient glimpses of the
blue sky beyond, as after a snow-storm in
winter but the dark drapery is suddenly lift
ed up. as if by an uns en hand, and the west
ern skv. from the horizon upwards, is left
more bright and more charming than ever, to
refresh the sight and reanimate the soul.
It was such a day, as before remarked,
w hen the pupils of thissehool—partly because
of the darkness in the school-room, and partly
because of their protracted confinement within
a close apartment during a gloomy afternoon
—were, a little earlier than usual, about to be
dismissed. The puoi's all seemed to wel
come tin* happy release that awaited them;
and in their eagerness to escape from confine
ment, they very nalu rally neglected to observe
their accustomed regard tor quiet and order in
laying a»ule their hooks. It was, however, a
fixed habit w ith the teacher, never to give the
signal for leaving the room till all the pupils
had taken the proper attitude for passing out
with regularity, and then had composed them
selves to perfect silence. On this occasion,
perlmpK two minute*.passed away white imr
boys were gradually, almost- impatiently,
bringing themselves to a compliance with tins
rule of the teacher.
During this interval of waiting, the cloud,
unperceived by the teacher, had been slowly
raised up from the western horizon, just in
time to allow the setting sun to bestow a fare
well glance upon Uie sorrow ing world at his
leave-taking. Through the Venetian blinds
that guarded the windows towards the west,
the celestial light gleamed athwart the apart
ment, und painted the opposite wall, in front
of the pupils, with streaks of burnished gold!
In an instant every countenance was changed.
A smile now joyously played where before
sadness and discontent had held their moody
reign. The teacher was reminded, by all
these circumstances, of the beautiful lan
guage of the prophet, which promised the
gift of the garment of praise for the spirit
jof heaviness." What could lie more appro
priate on the occasion than a song of praise 1
Without speaking a single word, the teacher
commenced one of the little songs already fa
miliar to the whole school
L die he ivens aio breaking,
Pure an tln igtit above;
Lite and light awaki g,
Murmur—tiod is love.
God is l ive.”
Instantly every voice that ever sung, now
utter d heartfelt praise. The attendant cir
cumstances, taken at the happv moment,
t.n ia.>h'*d such an impressive commentary
upon the import of tin* words, that they were
teli. as they never before had been felt, to be
the words of precious truth. Eveiy heart
throbbed hi unison with the sentiment At
the close of the song, there was profound si-
I nee in the room. After a moment's pause,
during which the irtitli that God is e (M »d
seemed to pervade each mind and hold it in
silent reverence, ihe signal for departure was
given One after another the boys passed
from their seats with light and careful step, as
if noise and haste would he a desecration both
of time and place; and when they reached
the open air, refreshing and exhilarating as it
was, there was no boisterous shout, no rude
mirth each took his homeward course, ap
parently w ith a new and lively conviction that
God is Good.”
The book contains many useful hints, and
should be in the hands of everyone who has
the care and training of youth. It is not ol
course perfect. ere Iso disposed, I might
probably pick out some blemishes, and cavil
at some of the sentiments. It is sufficiently
easy at all times, even for the man who has
no coal of his own, to pick holes in that of
his more fortunate neighbor. Voder this pro
j test, then, that I cannot subscribe to every
word of this production, any more than most
of the Episcopalian clergy subscribe, Vvithoul
reservation, mental or otherwise, to the
whole of the thirty-nine articles, 1 recom
mend it to the readers of the North Star.—
j J D
Free Sou. in Connecticut.— At a meet
ing of the friends of Free Soil held in New
Haven, (Ct.) the following resolution wai
adopted
Resolved, That we cordially adopt the
platform of principles laid down by the Duffah
Convention, aud accept iu» nomination of can
didates for the Presidency recognizing th*
great cause of Free Huii, Fire Labor, an«
Free -Speech, as our cause, and the men wht
support and represent it as the iuju fur u». M
Riot at Cincinnati. —A not occurred a
Cincinnati on the 22«1, occasioned by the ex
animation of two Germans on charge o
having committed a felonious assault on i
w oman. The mob attacked the jail, iniendinj
»o seize and kill the German*. Tire officer
f ,r, ‘d from a window, killing throe ami wound
mg several of the assailants. The affiu
created an intense excitement.
A later despatch stale* that the exeitemen
still continues. The jail wait had been dc
rnuluhed.—The military were called aut, am
four of the mob wets killed and three wounded
The cnuiiniU arc returned volunteer*.
igommunicatious.
Philadelphia, Aag. 5, 1948. j
Esteemed Friend*- —I should take this
occasion to give too some account of the
spirited Anti-Slavery meetings that we have j
had for a few days past, but I an aware that
ere this you hare thoae pioceedings by a more;
able pen. But suffice it to say, that we hare 1
had several very exciting and interesting
meetings, and hare at present a rery good
feeling amonj our people in this city; and
were that feeling kept up, we might in ajl j
probability obtain a goodly number of sub
scribers for your invaluable paper. I was'
delighted to see by your last number, that Mr.
M. R. D< lany intended making us a visit in
September, for the purpose of obtaining sub
scribers. I may lie mistaken, hut lam under
the impression that two hundred subscribers
cun be obtained in tins city and county by a
little vigilance. It will require a man that is
persevering, and one that stands pretty fair or
popular in this community very different
from Jas. McCrummell.
GEORGE W. GOIXES.

BerLINVIILK, Aug. 20. I
Dear Bro. Doiglvss: —l have just been
reperusing your address delivered at the cele
bration of the first of August h.dd in your
city. In it I find the following passage
“About eighteen years ago, a man of noble
courage rose among his brethren in Virginia.”:
For what purpose? “We have long been
subjected to slavery. The hour for our de
liverance has come. Let us rise and strike
for liberty. In the name of a God of justice,
let us slay our oppressors.” Yes, noble man.
Oh, that there were a few' such noble men
now! Oh that the slaves would rise as one
man, and hurl the tyrant from his throne
Oh that this were not a nation of hypocrites!
Oh that there were at the Nsrth a few noble
men, with philanthropy, religion, and soul
enough in them to go and aid their brethren in 1
freeing themselves from the galling tyranny.
And is it possible that there arc not? Do we
not all know that the slaves would be justifia*:
ble in rending their chains, even if to effect it
it were necessary to take the blood of every
slaveholder in the land? And do we not
know that what one man may do, another J
may assist him in doing? In short, do wej
not know that we ought to deliver the de-,
spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor?”)
Why this silence on the part of abolitionists!
and the abolition press? I wish to propose,'
for the consideration of abolitionists, the fol- 1
lowing question: Is it the duty of abolition
ists, under present circumstances, to make an
effort to liberate the slaves by force Will
its discussion be detrimental to the cause of
liberty Who will take the negative Give
us light. Yours for the slave,
FIM\TK IURRV
From our own Coir upon lent.
St. lleliers, Jersey, Aug. 9th.
I have availed myself of the opportunity
which a short sojourn in this delightful island
has afforded me, to visit the neighboring
shores of Franca. My fi
rmed to Normandy and Bntanny Provinces,
ihe inhabitants of which not long since all
but repudiated the term French, and consid
ering themselves, as in truth they are, distinct
races, chose to adopt different designations,
and to adhere to the denominations of their
respective countries. The tall atatmo, «l»o
fresh complexion, the light hair, and the clear
blue eye of the Norman, bespeak a very dif
ferent animal to the Frenchman proper. The
old Scandinavian blood has remained com- 1
pantively free from admixture in the veins of j
ihe peasant of Normandy, though the lan-!
guage has faded away utterly. The Bretons i
are a branch of the great Celtic race, and as
such, are less akin to the true French than
their Norman neighbors. Their physical
distinctions are not, perhaps, so marked, but
in temperament, and in ideas, they are even
more adverse. Their language, which, in
many secluded parts of the province, remains
almost unaltered, is very different from the
French. Under these circumstances, you
may judge that the mania which lias per
vaded all France, would, if exhibited at all,
be se m in its mildest form in the vicinity of
tlie North-western coast.
The first aspect of Republican France, dif
fers not greatly from that of France under
the citizen king. The same shoals of mili
tary dressed men rush on board on your en
tering the harbor, (very much out of their
element, by the by, do they look when they
have quitteJ dry land,) —there is the same
demand for passports, and the same rigorous
search foi contraband goods; but the first
sight which greets you on landing, is an un
happy-looking, faded shrub, (viewed at the
sowing time of the year,) bedizzened with
tawdry cotton rags, of blue, red and white,
its tiunk swathed in ungraceful folds, and
innumerable little streamers attached to its
twigs. This is the sacred emblem of the
Republic, in order to preserve which Irom in
jury aud insult, it is uecessary that that great
moustached and bearded soldier should be
solemnly pacing up and down continually.—
Why, the tree will be'dead by the day after
to-morrow then at Rome it is better to do
as the Romans do, and so, w hile passing, it is
best not to laugh at the tree, but, preserving
a respectful decorum, wend your wav to your
hotel. You have been seated but five min
utes, before you hear an awful rattling of
drums it is the National Guard exercising
in the street. Curiosity attracts you, and
you gaze from the w indow upon (to English
eyes) a very novel scene. Groups of eighteen
or twenty fellows —some fat and some lean,
others short, apparcntly_boys of 14 or 15,
whom one would think it unsafe to trust with
a gun, are carrying long muskets, with long
bayonets attached, and are being exercised
therewith. Drilling being over, the drum
beats again they quit the ranks, and scatter
themselves about the tow 0, each retaining the
I murderous weapon, which be appears to re
gard with pceulisr affection. You walk out.
and every public buikhng you see the
three words, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity
f except 00 the j-ui. They have enough aeaae
1 left not to inscribe liberty 00 a place of in
carcemion. You make a few cautious m
qutnes of those with whom you happen to
r come 10 contact, with the intention of obtain
ing the average optflton m which the new
1 state of things is held; everywhere you hear
j tt said that Lamartine was aQ very watt; hut
h« was a book-tasker be was not the man
for France be not govern the people
Caratgnac (having n<nr the ascendant) is iA<
man for France There new was any on
like Cavaignac. Occasionally, a waiter wil
tell yon, beneath bis breath, that the country
is in a wretched state that nothing is doing
You investigate the cause of his complaints
and you perhaps find, if von are in a tow:
any distance inland, that yon are the firai
Englishman that has gladdened his eyes thu
year wberoas, last year, at the same season
his hotel had entertained one or two hundrec
of our fellow-countrymen. If you chance U
sleep in the neighborhood of the main street
of what in England would be a dull, quie
l town, you will be awakened by the roll o
the drum, which will probably continue al
most incessantly for an hour and a half. On
half the time you cannot find out what thii
is all abouW It is probable it may be tram
to the reading of the proclamation of the Pro
feet or the suh-Prcfect, which, under th«
great and glorious R;*; üblic, must be attendee
with every noisy honor.
In travelling from one town to another
your horse perchance casts a shoe, and you
unwilling to waste your time in staying to sc<
it replaced, stroll onwards. Arriving a
some scene of beauty, after gazing about foi
some time, altogether regardless of a numbe;
of men who are working by the roadside
you eviscerate, from the depths of youi
pockets, your maps and guide-book, am
inayhaps produce a pencil, and begin calmlj
to enter in your book the result of your cogi
lations in arrangements for your future jour
ney. You are startled from your occupatior
by a volley of oaths and execrations in youi
immediate vicinity, and glancing up, discovei
with surprise that you are the object of them
The road-makers have ceased their work.—
One of them is blackguarding you with the
most concentrated expressions contained in the
French language, and the others are looking
approvingly on their comrade, whose abuse
they justify, by threatening gestures, also di
rected against yourself. llow on earth you
have offended them, you cannot imagine.—
Your awkward predicament is relieved by the
arrival of your carriage, into which you jum;
with marvellous celerity; and being now quit
of the gang, you begin to attempt to extract
from your driver the probable cause of the
unmitigated abuse to which you have been
subject. For a time you are perhaps unsuc
cessful but your Jehu being a shrewd fellow,
and having made particular inquiries what
you were doing, suggests, that as commis
sions have been recently issued by General
Cavaignac, with a view to the reduction ol
the vast clouds of ourriers who receive gov
ernment pay, you have probably been mis
taken fur one of tlieir employers—the careful
entries in your note-book, conjointly with the
calculating expression of your face, having
been deemed conclusive evidence against you.
You have, perhaps, beeg for the moment,
thoroughly frightened, and you are after
wards, perhaps, inclined to laugh at the inci
dent, and are surprised, on giving a jocose
version of it to an intelligent Frenchman, £t
th#grave aspect he aaamaes, although he
clitißg in popularity. Who the prcs’.it :.!ol
of this fickle-minded pagple is, I have not
asosttaineJ. Cavaignac, if the likenesses I
have seen of him are good, is a most noble
looking fellow. Truth and honesty, conjoined
with firmness of purj>ose, are written in every
line o his countenance.
I visited St. iwmo, rfP> birth-place 0 f
Chateaubriand, and there I saw the tomb in
which he had recently been interred. Every
thing had been done to render the ceremony
as imposing as possible. Fifty thousand peo
pie assembled to behold the sneetacle.
S. P. Q. R.
Help for the a use of Justice.
It is constitutin’' iliy pretended in our re
public, that justice is secured to all. But
adult people of ordinary intelligence under
stand that this means, to all who can pay for
it. Drayton and Sayres are poor men and
cannot pay. Tlieir case is ours. It belongs
to all the free who can afford the luxury of
human hearts in their bosoms. Need we call
attention to the Report of the Trial Commit
tee’s treasurer, and the call appended
Send your share of the money at once,
reader.
We see by the papers that sentence has
been pronounced upon Sayres, on the indict
ments which were allowed to go against him
1 by agreement, to wit fines amounting to
j $14,800, and imprisoned till paid. Of course
bis counsel reserved the right of exception,
and the case will be carried to a higher court,
where, if there is any respect for law, the
judgment will be reversed. The case of
Drayton is also to lie carried to the Circuit
Couit, and cannot fail to lie decided in his fa
vor, if a decent respect for law is not thrown
overboard. But all depends upon the Com
mittee's being furnished with the means to
conduct the defence.
Thus far the battle has been nobly, and
beyond expectation, successfully fought for
four weeks. The defence caunot show
their hand, for obvious reasons, but they
have a good one—one which it would be
criminal to lose for the want of even ten
thousand dollars.
We see the Northern papers which have
l noticed the result of this case are quite erro
neous, the N. Y. Morning Star cruelly so.—
It savs:
No sympathy will be felt for these men,
because the evidence went to prove, that
the negroes were stolen in order ui carry them
South and sell them it was a base larceny,
w hich the most fanatic abolmomst will cou
i demo.”
This, as our readers know, is totally fals?.
Sayres, in two trials, was acquitted of Lar
cenv.the witness by w boa Drayton, whose case
was the same,w as convicted, having retracted
r his lestummy. Of course, whether Drayton
1 is to have a new trial for that reason or not,
the verdict against hun is groundless. "I be
prosecution utterly failed to establish any car
i rymg awray to sell.
i Let our readers understand the case. There
were two sets of charges one fut stealing,
’l another for transporting. Drayton was oon
viiUd of stealing- The »lines* who convicted
i hun retracted, and Sayre* acquitted o;
stealing. By agreement, Sayre* was then
found guiltv of transporting, in eonsiderathm
1 j of the Distinct Attorney gmng up all the
1 larceny cases against him.
r So the case stand# thus English is dis
charged Drayton i» held only on the larceny
cases on testimony retracted since hi* eonvie
Uon Sayres is held ooly on the charge of
transput ting, wish as app«l to the Circuit
f Court, and a perfect certainty that the pruse
cution must fail to make a ease against him.
t Ckronetyft.
JU> A letter ha# beeoxweenedat Washing
ton, form Gen. Casn; pledging himself, if
elected to veto the W limot Proviso. A. O.
B*t.
Hon. iostraa ft Gtddings, the prevent
r »hfo, fearless, and true Repreo ouiive of the
r XX ih •ogresstons! District of Ohio, has
besa mnnmi 1 4 by the Whigs for re-election.
The District eoopnsos the Counties «f Ash
tabula. Cuyahoga, Geauga,and Lake, aad ia
the Oregoa Bilk
j Tk« fbHmf Jb|f incxleaft w hich occur id vbin
th« Oregon Bill came *pm ib me
P*tract fmm the Wssbtngtgn correspond mce
j of the New York Expr****:
When the iram? of Mr. of Mo.,
was called, he pone and ntd th*l he had agreed
to pairoff* tfpon »lun qnt>.<oi«n with Joshua
R. Gidduurs and he did not Tote. This was
worse lhao a Mitkerj, Mr. Giddmgs n»tfh»
is well have paired otf with uobodv, as
Mr. J., is not in his seat one day in forty.
At one o'clock and ten minutes the great
rote was taken on the “Missouri Compromise"’
as given above. AH were iir their seats, and
the members of the House wer breathlessly
1 silent, it was apparent that the vote woulJ
he maiuly srctional, though here and there
the voice of a Northern man with Southern
principles” was heard, Dinisaii, of New
York, sell-sacrificing to the last, leading off,
notwithstanding the doom which awaits him.
There were some dodgers present in the Hall,
and some ready to vote for ihe Compromise,
if their votes shoo Id he necessary to pass it;
hut the majority against such a Compromise
was overwhelming. and the result W3s receiv
ed as a sort of volcano in the chamber, and no
one had dreams of so large a vote, or so im
mense a majmity.
Mr. MeClemand, of Illinois, who reserved
his vote, when his name was called, tosc ami
voted No. After the roll had been finished,
and after appearing in as many colors as the
chameleon, and deeming discretion the bet
ter part of valor,” he fiually voted against the
Compromise. There were others in equal
tribulation, hut none so vacillating as the mem
ber who did'nt vote at all, and finally voted
both ways.
It is determined beyond all peradventure
now, that the Representatives of the People
from the free States, dare not vote for the ex
tension of slavery. The exceptions only make
the principle sustained, and the very few men
who abandon it, all the more prominent. Ii is
hardly necessary to direct public attention to
these men. If political death overtook the
People’s Representatives, who voted for the
Slavery Compromise twenty years gone bv,
what will he the fate of such men in this more
enlightened and responsible day of political
place and power?
Gen. Taylor Committed at Last.—The
Albany Journal dlates that, on the subject
of the Wilmot Proviso, Gen. Taylor enter
tains the views of Mannum and Clayton.”
To which the Providence Herald adds—“ We
deem it just to remark, in ordi r fully to
prove Gen. Taylor's committal on this point,
that one of the gentlemen above named voted
for this measure, and the other against t.
Gen. Taylor not a Whig.— Russel, a
western stump orator and lately a whig rup
resentative in the Ohio Legislature can't
swallow old Zack. In a late speeech at one
of the Ohio Free Soil meetings he came out
and defined hi 3 position. He said the Whig
party was in tee predicament of a once un
fortunate coon. The coon had selected a
hollow atump, and made in it his nest for the
approaching starms of winter, at great pains,
with straw, leaves, Hut one day on his
return, he looked down into his nest from the
top, and what should he in it but that other
.anitnal called a skunk. The Coon hailed the
skunk: How came you in there?”—The
skunk answered Because 1 am.” Well,”
says the coon, get out, then.” Shan't
do it,” say i the sku ik. Hut you will—it's
my house,” sail Mr. Coon. I wom't—for
it's mine,” said Mr. Skunk. Well, who
are yon, then?” said Coon Me—l am a
coon,” replied the skunk. “You a coon?”
said th" coon why, you don't talk like a
coon—you don't act like a coon—you don’t
look like a coon —and hang me if you smell
like a coon.” (Great laughter.)
So, added Russell, we Whigs may sav
of the man foisted for his avvilability upon
the national ticket of the Whig party, as its
candidate for President. He don’t talk like
a whig—lie don't act like a whig—he don’t
look like a whig—lie don’t smell like a w hig
—and 111 be hangeJ if he is a whig.”—
(Cheers.)
J '.ring alikm. —A speaker at the Huff’d'*
ill _ 4 1 U in tilG
treatment of slavery and other petitions in
congress, thus
It is petition dav in congress A gentle-;
man from South Carolina his presented a
petition to take the fetters off of home j
labot.” The petition is passed right along, j
I felt encouraged. (I was green then.) [A
laugh.] I have presented a petition that
congress shall as lar as it has power, remove j
the institution of slavery. Immediately a
dozen members move to lay it on the table,
and it is laid on the table in a twinkle. Th *re
was but little difference in the two petitions.
The Southern member s was to remove the
fetters from how la'jor, and mine was to re
move the fetters fiona home laborers. I feit
like the green Yankee who went to work fir
the old deacon. They used to place a pitcher
by his plate which contained nothing but
water, while the rest of the family u>cd the j
contents of a huge pitcher which sat in the
middle of the table. One day our Yankee
friend boldly sciz d said pitcher and taking a
hearty swig therefrom found it to c mtain the
best kind of cider. The deacon, very much
astonished, asked the veung man where he
was brought up?” here ad fared aii»e,
by replied I»3. (Great laughter.] I
came from a country where all fared alike,
and I thought rny petition should have been
...a .....I. .n.,/,h rf>*rv'ct as the other.
Circumstances art
propitious for the rigorous appiicatioc
ot this political philosophy to the eventi
which are nnrolting before us. The
earth has trembled: a sudden, unex
pected, irresistible shock, has unsettled
all interests, all passions, all affec
tions, all systems. AH is debris, all is
i chaos, before ua hearts, like con
sciences, are free; the ground is lev
elled as if for a grand social recon
struction prepared by tbe Divine Archi
tect. An ancient power, which som«
veuerated through conviction or memo
ry, others hated from impatience 01
prejudice, has been overwhelmed, and
so to say, through its owu fatal will; nc
one amongst us is guilty of it; friends
or enemies have seen it fall with equal
astonishment. lam not here speaking
of that crowd who have plaudits for al
who soar, yells for all who fall: this
power perished in the tempest which ii
had itself so blindly arous<d. Royal
ihts ourselves in heart or mind, men o
logic or fidelity, we can but weep ir
silence over these dispersed ruins
venerate and lament the august victim:
ot an irremediable error, remove in
sult from the white hairs of the aged
call respect and pity around the tombs
of the martyrs, of the pious asylum o
woman, and not proscribe pardon ant
hope for the heads of innocent children;
but, abandoned to ourselves by a fact
stronger than us, we belong entirely tc
it; our reason has no more ties, out
private affection no longer struggles in
us against our social logic. Let us
learn, then, in deploring all there is tc
deplore in that chain of ages, whose
last link is broken, in spite of ourselves,
in our own hands, to profit like men by
that liberty which the catastrophe has
made fur us! Let us not he led bv the
ieeling which has no place in the actual
fact, but let us reason and act; let us
not be men of one opinion, of one par
ty, of one family, but men of the pres
ent and the future!’ When our sons, tc
whom we shall have bequeathed oui
work and our memory, shall judge us
from'afar, with the impartiality and
rigor of distance, when all personal
leeling shall be dead and cold before
them, when they shall sound the social
order we have prepared for them, they
will not receive lor excuse our preju
dices ot birth, our predilections of
blood, our family customs, ourdeiicacy
ot mind, our fitness of position, our
vain regrets, our weak dislikes; they
will ask of us if we have acted as men,
intelligent men, prescient and free, or
j it we have lost, in vain recriminations
and in powerless sorrows, the epoch
which was given to*us to regenerate so
cial order, and ascertain the depth tff
political truth.
Upon these foundations, then, we
shall establish thus, and in a few
words, the political symbol of a ration
al epoch whereon we are entering.
contine myself to laying it before you;
i it is for you to contrast it in each ques
tion of detail with the three principles
which ought to govern and enlighten it,
i l iie limits of this letter do not permil
rne, upon auy of these articles, either
development, discussion, comment
ary: each would be a book; it net*.
but a word. I shall take them u[
again, perhaps, at a later period.
vu.tmß vin.
The attempt of the coup d'etat of Ju
lv was senseless and guilty. Then
was error in the intention, and violatior
of sworn faith in the act; consequent!*
neither reason nor morality in the deed;
impartial conscience judges it as the
event has judged it; a coup d'etat i<
only moral and just when it is neces
sary, and whensoever it is necessary ii
is successful: it is the first axiom o
high politics.
The dynasty was thoroughly com
promised in the chastisement inflicted
by the deed: the political punishment
struck beyond the fault. The fire oi
i popular indignation consumed the dry
j and the green wood: resistance, in its
perfect right, for two days, exceeded it
on the third: on that the violation oi
another right commences—the dynastic
right. Its maintenance alone would
have been moral. Was it possible, in
j the very excitement of action, in the
very fire of the fray? History alone
I knows and will say. We are quite
ignorant of it. Whatever the judg
ment delivered by a revolution in the
heat of conflict, in the partiality ol
victory, there are always two voices to
protest more loudly against it—one in
heaven, conscience; one on earth, his
tory: but it must be confessed here,
with a mournful sincerity, since two
lights were alike violated and reversed
in a private or social struggle, con
science.like history-,attaches the strong
est culpability to the aggressor, and
finds, in the first violation, if not the
excuse, at least the cause of tbe
socond.
If, in the appreciation of these two
faults, we are led to balance the popu
lar right ogainst the dynastic right, we
find that they are only one and the
same right, the people’s right of safety,
the right of social necessity The one
is pritnordially and eternally derived
trom the other. If the people violate
it; it, without an invincible necessity,
they destroy it, they are striking them
selves, violating themselves, and by
themselves are punished for their own
crime; but, the event once accomplish
ed, is society to perish irremediably
under the ruins of its dynasties? Are
generations to transmit', like a bloody
heritage, the vengeance of this right
the redress of that wrong? Are men
of reasou, light and conscience, to ab
stain, in the absence of this right, from
their m >st nnprescriptable law, fro, n
their duties as citizens, as children of
the nation, ot the age, of humanity;
and to retire, forever, “to their tents,’*
because one national chief is aubsi’i
tuted for another? No: that would be
the commencement, in them, of an of
fence, graver than that against which
their inertness would pretend to protest
and be severe. Their bootless fidelity
to a man, to a recollection, to a name,
to a duty, that the fact would bare ren
dered fictitious, would become infideli
ty, more real and more culpable to
themselves, to the couutry, the people,
to all mankiod: for the purpose of bon-
I oring the past, they would betray the
i present and the future. The genera
j lions would demand from them an ac
count of their force, voluntarily abau
i doned by them, in the eleroal social
struggle, in the progressive march ol
ideas and of thiugs. Whoever does
nut tight in that contest, whoever does
i not advance in that path, is accountable
for, and an accomplice in, the evil
which is triumphant, or the society
I which stands still; and, besides, if ev
ery one had the independent right of
i the country to acknowledge in the dy
nasties which spread over history, the
one which appears to him to have the
primordial right to his obedience, the
exclusive title to his affection what
would become of the social world? We
should acknowledge as many aover
eign* as there are names in our calen
dar. One would serve Clovis, another
believe in Pepin the absurdity of the
i consequences proves the absurdity of
the dogma. Common sense, like mo
rality, like the invincible necessity of
national existence, leads us, then, to
conclude, that legitimacy, the best of
social objections, is, however, nothing
but a social convention, a salutary tic
f tion of right that it only has the
i right, so long as it has the fact, or that
it is striving to recover it; that dynas
i ties which possess the present do not
possess the future; that the royal races
rise and descend in eternal rotation of
human destinies like other races; that
the power, expression, and nroperty of
the entire society is not alienated for
ever, is not infeudated to an immortal
family, is not interminably transmitted,
as a fief of humanity; that everything
may perish, that everything tnay change
—men, races, dominions, names, and
i forms, even of governments and em
pires; but one single thing does not
perish, does not change, is not pre
scribed—the duty for each man, for
each citizen, not to Separate himself
from his country, nut to nullify himself
in the nation, not to protest alone
agai ist a social necessity, admitted by
the fact; for a social fact has also its
logic and its consequences, independent
of its right; but to serve the country,
the nation, humanity, in all the phases,
|in all the conditions of his moveable
1 and progressive existence. The most
j simple morality here becomes policy.—
A single case is excepted, that in which
I divine law, or the conscience, may be
in opposition with human laws; this is
the case which makes heroes or mar
tyrs, men greater than citizens.
For us, then, constitutional royalists,
men at once of fidelity and of liberty,
of morality and progress, two duties
are clearly written before our eyes: the
one, a duty of conscience—to serve
the country, to march with the nation,
to think, to speak, to write, act and
fight with her; the other, a duty of
honor, which a special position, an ex
ceptional delicacy, may impose on some
few of us—to hold aioof from the im
mediate action, and the favors of gov
ernment; not to solicit its good graces,
not to deck ourselves with its gifts, not
to court its confidence, not to adore
victory, not to glide with fortune from
one palace to another, not to repudiate
our first worship, the affections of our
cradles; not to carry to the feet of a
new race, consecrated, albeit, in our
j eyes, by necessity, hearts still warm
i with our devotion of yesterday, to a
l race which exile shelters, and which
iw. In (Kot pnnjiKctir
palace of the vicissitudes of the throne,
and of the returns of adversity.
Even mourning sits well on grief with
out hope.
Although morality does not reprovt
i a contrary conduct when a political ne
cessity instigates it, this conduct, altei
j a devotion of fifteen years, after bene
i received, perhaps,would make ever
i 'irtue suspected. The past has it<
rights; honor and gratitude may have
their scruples. To this rule there u
but one single exception, which con
firms it by its rarity, even by its impro
bability: it is the case where the pr ince
will require of us, in the name of the
country, a service which no other can
render him as well as we. In this case,
honor, all personal feelings, must yield
to patriotism, a social feeling; and,
consequently, above the former. Some
time, in these incalculable chances ol
revolutions, the prince may find him
the first in this formidable excep
tion. King, by the fact of his ncces
s itv, innocent of his elevation, unhappy
perhaps, from his own grandur!
FORCE OF GK WIT V IS THE MOR.
AL WORLD.
BY ELIHU BURRITT.
In the material universe there is one
grand, royal law, upon which hang all
the laws that govern matter or motion.
That law, the union and source of all the
laws known to the physical world, is the
law of Gravitation. In its object, oper
ation and effect, it is to the material
world just what the royal law of love ia
to the moral. To every atom of matter
in the universe, it is the command, and
I the commaud shall he obeyed—“ Thou
shall love the Lord thy God with all thy
j soul, mind and strength, and thy neigh
boras thyself.” Thou shall attach thy
selfto his eternal throne with all thy ca
pacity ot adhesion, and draw with thee
fellow atom towards the same cen
tre. Since the world was made, not a
grain of sand, not a drop of rain or dew,
n *r a vi&cle of air, has ever broken that
law; and there has been peace through
all the peopled amplitudes of space.
Pervading the whole universe with its
socializing influences, it attracts particle
to particle, planet to primary, sun to sun
system to system;, mooring all the crea
tion of God around his throne, the com
mon centre of matter and of mind. And
there, firm and peaceful, that roval
law holds them, while they make music
with the harmony of their motions, sing
ing as they revolve in their orbits which
it peracribed them when eternity was
young, and which shall remain unalter
ed by a hair, when eternity shall be old.
1-pon the almighty and omnipresent
force of that law, depends the destiov
of worlds which geometry never meas
ured, the condition of beings oatstreeb
mg the arithmetic of angels. Should ft
release its hold on a single atom fioat
mg along on the sunless disk of nonexis
tence, trembling would run through all
»hose innumerable creations,“and eigne
of woe unutterable that all was Jo«t
Suppose, now,that wotm human go*.
eminent should undertake to suspend
the operations or existence of this roy- 1
at law of the physical world. And sup
pose that its puny arm could palzy
that all-pre&dtng, concentrating force;
what mind could not conceive the
wild catastrophe that would ensue
through the material universe Mil
lions of suns would be quenched simul
taneously in everlasting night. All the
worlds they lighted and led, would crum
ble in their orbits into the minutest di
visions of matter, filling the whole irn
-1 mensity of space with hostile atoms,
each at war with his fellow, repelling
its society, and dashing on in its centri
fugal madness, to ‘’make confusion
worse confounded.” All the beings
that peopled those decomposed worlds,
would float promiscuous and dismem
bered over the black surges of the
boundless chaos; and not a throb of life
or ray of light would beat or shine
amid the ruins of the universe. Does
any one doubt for a moment, that all
this, and more than we can conceive of
ruin, would be the instantaneous con
sequence ol destroying the great law of
gravitation?
But what is all this; what to God
and his moral universe is ail this disas
ter, this wreck of matter and cra*b of
.worlds; what this disruption of every
vein of life and form of beauty; what is
this to that other and more dreadful ca
tastrophe which war would' produce,
when it reaches up and essays to para
lyze, with its iron hand, the great law
of Love, the law of gravitation in the
moral world, which attracts and centres
around the heart of God, all the hearts
that beat with spiritual existence?—
Amid the decompositions of the material
universe, every undying spirit would be
safe tram the general ruin, nor verge a
hair from its moral orbit, nor be jostled
from its centripetal tendency towards
its great Source and Centre. But in
that other act of immeasurable iniquity,
j man would consign the moral world to
a chaos infinitely more appalling than
I that which would involve the material
universe, should he strike from exis
j tence the law of gravity. He would
sever every ligament of attraction that
attaches heart to heart, spirit to spirit,
angel to angel, and all created beings
to God. He would set the universe on
fire with malignant passions, on whose
red billows contending spirits, once
blessed, now damned, would thrust at
each other’s existence, and curse them
selves and God. That act would put a
sword iu every angel’s hand, and every
harp in heaven, with horrid discord,
would summon the frenzied and bat
tling seraphs to mutual and deathless
slaughter. It would blast the foliage of
life’s fair tree, turn the crystal river in
to burning pitch, and line its banks with
fighting fiends. Hate, malignant and
quenchless, would burn in every heart,
fcnd no two spirits in the universe would
unite, even in common melevolence.
BAD LUCK
There are many pennons
with whom fogg|ie has dealt raffier
harshly, aceojHhg to their account,
i and who coaatsypliy ihair
picious fate, awributiog alt 'tjjhrfr
misfortunes, hdjpreal and imaginary,
to bad luck.* To ail such we com
mend the following article from Rev.
H. \V. Beecher*s lectures to young
1 men
“I may here, as well as any where,
impart th*» arr.cet of frond a*>U L«d luv_k.
There are men who, supposing Provid
ence to have an implacable spite
against them, bemoan in the poverty of
a vvretched old age the misfortunes of
their lites. Luck forever ran against
them and for others. One, with a
good profession, lost his luck in the
river, where he idled away his time in
fishing.—Another, who had a good
trade, perpetually burnt up his luck in
his hot temper, which provoked his
j employers to leave him. Another,
with lucrative business, lost his luck
I amazing diligence at every thing
but his own business. Another, who
steadily followed his trade, as steadily
followed his bottle. Another, who was
honest and constant at his work, erred
by perpetual misjudgments— he lacked
discretion. Hundreds lose their luck
endorsing by sanguine speculations
by trusting fraudulent men and by
dishonest gains. A man never has
good luck who has a bad wife. I never
knew an early rising, hard working
prudent man careful of his earnings,’
and strictly honest, who complained of
bad luck. A good character, good
habits, and iron industry are impregna
ble to the assaults of all the ill luck
thatfools ever dream of. But when I
see a tatterdemalion, creeping out of
a grocery late in the afternoon, with
his hands stuck into his pockets, the
rim of his hat turned up and the crown I
knocked in, 1 know he has had bad
luck, for the worst luck is to be a slug
gard, a knave, or a tippler.”
Tight La.ci.xg.—A learned doctor,
referring to tight lacing, avers that it is
a pubfic benefit, inasmuch as it kills ali
the foolish girls, and leaves the wise
ones to grow to be women.
Rather Stro.xg.—Parker Pillsburv,
speaking upon one occasion of the so-,
called cottonocracy ”of Boston, said
that they would dam up the river ol
life, that they might build cotton-mills!
in the city of the Sew Jerusalem.”
O.xlt Twelve Cexts.—The value
of a w ife has at length been settled by
a court and jury. In N. York, a hus
band has just recovered, for the legal
detention of his wife for two yearv
tieehc cent#—just half a cent a m mth. f
Steel Pins. —The quantity of steel
annually consumed in the manufacture j
ot pens is estimated at 120 tons, from
which 200,0J'J.000 are produced yearly
Good Advice.—lf, said an Irish
apothecary, you find three tumblers ol j
whiskey disagree with you over night,
dont ta k« ’em till next day, and then
leave ’em off entirely.
Dickt.—The young ladies of a fash
ionable boarding school in Massachu
aetta, instead ol making use of the
common and uncouth term, die tinnary;
have unanimously adopted the more re-
Orthography of ric&ord-tionary.
We find this in the papers, but cannot
vonch lor in truth.
If I *m to nave a fault 1 would rather
speak ton harshly, and thrust truth forth
too unwisely, than to play the hypo*
crtjjMto any one, and hold truth ia
a.