SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS,
At the Fsaeud Mating, Mtnday eventug Mar. 26th
Mr. President and fellow citizens:
Tne friend who preceded mu spoke
of the very remarkable crisis in which
we were met in Faneuil Hall to-night, i
can liken it to nothing but to the sup
position that Samuel Adams, in revo
lutionary times, had gone over to the
British, or John Hancock had ratted.
The men who came up to this Hall iu
1776 with such news, in what temper
would they have filled it.?
There has been hut one such event
as that we now consider within our day.
I will not allude to those iny friend
has mentioned in the time ol Charles Ist
or of our own Revolution. But we
know there was a time when the fate
of Hungary rested with one man; and
who does not remember the indignatiou
that swept over Europe when it was
known that Georgey had been bought
by Russian G *ld t Liberty stands now
in these Northern States as it stood
then in Hungary; and the news has
come to u* that our dictator, in whom
Massachusetts had trusted so londly, in
whom she had garnered up all her con
fidence, has been bought with ttie g ild
of our Russia. Mark, also, that Geor
gey, when he eurrend-red Hungary,
•uriendered nothing but the political
rights of the men he was betraying.
Our statesman, baser far. is dealing
with those personal rights, the violation
of any one of which outweighs that of
all civil privileges.
We are met to consult tn such a cri
sis as this. For after all, whether we
are able to answer the arguments of
Daniel Webster or not, whether Mas
sachusetts can pick to pieces that logic
or not, whether we can uuravel its so
phistry to her inhabitants or not, the
convicti *n of every man's heart is, that
Daniel Webster is false, no matter how
impregnable his logic be or seem [Hear
hear.]
We may be unable to unravel the
web of that sophistry. He is a great
man, doubtless, and can easily utake
'the worse appear the better reason.’
And it may be, so deep and profound is
tbe confidence of the Commonwealth in
him, that it may be impossible to keep
her from the conclusions t which that
Argument leads. But let us stand as
Chatham stood, when some eophister
tried to prove to him that the cauae of
Hampden end Cromwell was to be
suspected, was unconstitutional, end
that, after all, Charles Ist and Claren
don were the true friends of English
liberty, and he retorted, 'Grant it all;
no men ehall persuade me that it was
not the cause of liberty on the one hand
and of tyranny on tbe other.' (Prolong
ed applause.]
Let it be so with us now. I care not
whether 1 am able to answer that
speech or not. The parties were met;
they stood ranged and marshalled face
to face on the floor of the United States
Senate; and ee that speech is spoken,
the feces of the friends of freedom ere
blenched, sod joy brightens the cresi
of Caihoun. 1 care not for tbe argu
ment. [Sensation.] He gave aid end
comfon to the enemy, aod that is trea
son. [Reiterated applause.] But this
is e speech thst is rotton ell through,
not only in Us spirit, but its argument
also. [Cheers It answers itself.
The beginning sate the end. It is like
Munchausen’s lion, that devoured the
bores so quick as to find himself in tbe
traces, dreg*.og the chariot. Shouts of
enthusiasm. 1
I will not go at length over the
ground which has been so wAll trodden
before me, but we must talk of tbe
spoeeb, aod thsrtfere 1 niirttiUlvftb*
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
same subjects as my friend who he*
preceded me. Let me say a wore
about the argument an tu Texan annex
ation. In the Texas Address, which he
dictated, iu 1815, Mr. Web»ter pro
nounced that act 'a plain violation oi
ne Constitution, both iu !orui and sub
Amt'. In 1848, at Marshfield, he
.aid, '1 take it that tiu mo*t important
event of ovr lime, tending to tbe exten
sion of slavery mj£t its everlasting es
ablishment on this continent, was the
Annexation of Texas-in IM&. 1 In 1849
a Springfield, he told u», 'We ere ti
use the first, last, and every occasion
•vhich offers, to oppose the extension c
lie Slave Power.* Oil the lOih Angus
1848, after New Mexico and Califoruib
vere acquired, he rose in the Senate
md thus delivered himself:
'My opposition to the increase of sla
very m this country, or to the metea&
*1 slave representation, is general am
universal. It has no reteience to th*
Hues of latitude *>r points of the com
puss. 1 SHALL OPPOSE ALL SUCH EX
TENSION AT ALL TIMES AND UNDER ALL
CIRCUMSTANCES, EVEN AGAINST ALL IN
DUCEMENTS, AGAINST ALL SUPPOSED
LIMITATION OF GREAT INTERESTS,
AGAINST ALL COMBINATIONS, AGAINSI
ALL COMPROMISES.’
Here, t en, was a crisis worthy,
himself being judge, of his utmost ex
ertion. Dignut vindice nodu* —a km i
which justified the interference of a
god. It was ‘unconstitutional’; it wa*
'most impurtaut’; it tended to makt
slavery 'everlasting’; he was pledged t«
oppose it everywhere and by all
means.
In ~w of all this, what and how
much has Daniel Webster ever done
to prevent the annexation? And when
by the unconstitutional action of a
temporary majority, the deed was ii.
some sense attempted or done, whui
did he do to prevent its acquiring the
validity of law
He made a few speeches, one in par
ticular, at Niblo’s Garden, New York;
Out when so mighty an injustice as thi*
was in progress, was it enough to speak
merely My friend told us just now
that Mr. Webster was eloquent. Hi
is so. But 1 remember a definition he
once gave of eloquence. 'True elo
quence uoes not consist in speech.’said
lie. 'The graces taught in the schools,
the costly ‘ornaments and studied con
trivances of speech, shock and disgust
men when their own livet and the fate of
their wive*, their children and their coun
try hang on the decision of the hour.
Then patriotism is eloquent, then self
devotion is eloquent; the high purpose
the dauntless spirit, urging the
whole man onward, right onward to bi>
object, this is eloquence; or ra her, it
is something greater and higher than
all eloquence, it is action —noble’sub-
lime, godlike action!* How much ot
this‘action’has he ever shown in hi.-
opposition to Texas? Wiien, in 1843
Adams, Gates, Giddings, Briggs, anu
tha rest, raised the note of warning to
the people of the free Slates, where was
tbe name ot Daniel Webster?
When did he ever throw his dreaded
gauntlet into the lists, and challenge
every comer? When did he ever pul
gallantly at hazard his name, fame and
influence, throw intrepidity into the
scale of anti-Texas all that be had and
that he was? Did he rally the country
Did he try to animate and marshal even
the Whig party? Did he counsel a
temporary suspension of attending to
minor points, and a concentration ol
the vigilance ot tbe couniry on this, the
Thermopylae and Gibraltar of the
N>rth? Did he summon the States,
whose relative weight, as such, was
being wickedly and illegally taken from
them, to protest and exert themselves?
For the ten years that the xas pro
ject was afoot, he, and with some truth
we may say he alone, was competent
to any or all of these things. 'One
blast upon his bugle-horn had been
worth a thousand men.’ But none ot
them did he attempt. In a great mea
sure, his lukewarmness and indiffer
ence were the one great obstacle m
the way of any other tnau’s doing either
of them.
True he got others to call a conven
tion, in 1815, in this Hall, and when
he had felt the pulse of Boston, and
found the meeting unpopular, he never
came within its wails, but ran away to
New York. He dictated the unconsti
tutional part of that Convention’s ad
dress, and then forbade them to divulge
the tact! Howmnch in ail ibis of high
purpose Md daumles spirit’?
But in December, 1815, while be
sat iu the Seuate, the final law doing
the deed of annexation’ was passed
He expressed his opiniui,’ he tells us,
‘and recurded his vote in the negative,
and there that vote stands’! And was
that all? He stood and saw his loved
temple of Liberty fired, 'expressed his
opinion, and voted again-t it’! He saw
the Constitution violated—the balance
•f the States utterly destroy, d—saw a
a deed accomplished whose L'.al con
sequences even nis eloquence labors in
in attempting to portray in the Texas
Address, and contented himself with
a speech and a vote! When a ruthless
majority trainpiee on the form and
substance ofthe Constitution, of course
there must be eome constitutional
way of opposiog them, of preventing
their acts acquiring validity. As a pro
tbund constitutional lawyer* Mr. Web
ster could'not but know these ways
ami means of constitutional opposition
la such a crisis, he was hound to find
irte make one. Did be attempt ii?
Did ba contest the right to their aeat*
of men who appeared on that flsor, un
dor that plain violation of tha Coasti
utfiefT? H* Mv«r opened hie ntetithl
Did he like the Scottish chieft* 1 1
old send tke burnt cross throughout
New England, reminding her ©I
he had dictated, in 1845—‘It m >di«
say that the assent of the people of
State, in a greet and lundameuta.
question like this, is it to be proved by
or inferred from, any vote of its rep
resentatives in Congress’? conjurt
them to assemble in Convention, ant
swear never to ratify by acquiescewt
this act which tended to make slaver;
everlasting on the continent Nothin*
of the kind.
Did he, if he thought it too late ft
undertake this, place on solemn recorc;
at Washington, and add his iufluenct
iu the denial ofthe Massachusetts Leg
islature of the validity ‘of any compn
ume intended to preclude the future ap
plication of such a condition’ [a9 Wil
mot’s]
Instead of this, he assures Mr Bell
»f Tennessee, (page 18) that 'he know*
nofoim of legislation which can atren
ten this plain violation of the Constitu
tion, ‘no recognition that can add a till*
of weight to it’! 'Any additional recog
nition would weaken the force of it’!—
‘Government is pledged by law and
contract’ (p 26.) And he surrenders,
gives up the game, promises to quintu
ple the weight of Texas when asked. 1*
this what he calls using the first,last and
every occasion to resist thesisvepowerr
—this opposition under all cir< urn
stances,against all inducements,again*!
ALL coMFRoMISEi’? Daniel Webslei
has tpoken some and well ugainsiTexas
He has yet to do the first act to resist
her annexation, or prevent the fatal ef
tecta of that measure. His present po
sition either professes that his boasted
Constitution is all a sham, so weak thin
it leaves its friends no means of resist
ing the unconstitutional acts ot a ruth
less majority, oi that his whole oppo
sition to Texas, judged by his puhlii
acta, was a shain.
Does Mr. Webster mean to say, that
if the majority in the Senate vo'ed
Maine out of that body, or established
an order of n >bles, he should content
himself with an 'opinion and a vote’?
But I will pass from this point, which
has been sufficiently spoken to. If 1
had tune, 1 should like to try to show
that tbe annexation of Texas is not yet
made valid by tbe acquiescence of the
people, except so far as that she is in
the Union; and that, as to the othei
portion of the agreement, the bringing
in ol her slave States, we msy honora
bly still try the question, whether the
people will ratify it, or whether we can
not persuade them fairly while there’s
time, to hold it void. Had we a man
and not a ffebster, i i the Senate,there
would be hope. (Cheers.)
Mr. Webster tells us, in tbe second
portion of his argument, that there is
no necessity for the Wilmot Proviso.
Upon what ground? Why, that the
climate of Naw Mexico renders it im
possible that slavery should extend
there. What does Mr. Webster say
(page 8) in his revised speech ‘Slave
ry existed in the earliest period of his
tory in the oriental nations.’ What
does he say on the 29th page? 'Cali
fornia and Mew Mexico are'—what?
‘Asiatic in their formation and scenery!’
If they are so, what prevents slavery
from existing there in the latest period*,
as it did iu the oriental nations in the
earliest? (Loud plaudits.)
‘There was slavery among theGreeks’
says Mr. Webster. What was Greece?
‘lron-bound and sterile,’ says Edward
Everett; with an unproductive soil,
importing her own corn. What is the
description Mr. Webster gives of New
Mexico? Such as Greece was, with
her mountain fastnesses, with 'vasi
ridges of mountains ol enormous height
broken ridges and deep valleys. Sla
very existed in Greece, without much
tillable ’and, without cot on or tobacco.
Why cannot it exist in our mountains
at the present day
There never was one square mile of
the earth’s surface, on which man dwelt
where slavery has not existed. 1 am
within limits when 1 say that there is
not a hundred square miles upon the
earth’s surfac**, of inhabited territory,
in which slavery has not existed; and
yet he contends that it is impossible lor
slavery to exist in the countless mile*
of unknown and untrodden territory
west of the Del Norte. In every State
of this Union, except possibly Vermont
slavery has existed. Does Mr. Web
ster undertake to affirm that oo space
equal to New England exists in New
Mexico which is not more pilled with
granite and less 'tillable’ than she? It
is contradicted by all the history of th«
world. Labor has never been bard
en<»ugh to make it welcome to a free
man, or make him unwillieg to force it
on a slave. Mr. Webster knows this
because he has said as much, substan
tially, in the commencement of his
speech. Yet be telle ue to trust to—
what? To trust to chance! I would
t>e willing to trust to change, fairly in
terpreted; to the providence of God.
But whoever trusts to change, under
•he Constitution of the United Staten,
trusts to loaded dice aad peeked cards.
(Cheers.) He trusts to a Webster
surrendering the forces of liberty,
while Calhoun, like tha Guards,'never
yields,—be dies.’ Hear, hsar.) That
is the chance. No—we will 'take a
bond of fate,’ before we will trust to
that. (Cheers.)
I will leave true untouched further,
«e my friend has treated it so fuliy; aod
pass to the third portion of Mr. Web
ster’s speech, which deals with the fu
gitive e)av». I wish you to hear with
me a moment whtis 1 dwell upon this.
Mr. Wtkrttr ••/•Uwubtwdi cupper*
f ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1850.
not only the CuosHUHh*. but the bi.
el Mr. Mason on this subject.
Now, I wish to brmgpo your recol
•retina* what that bill order tlm
ou may fairly judge u|»at be uodri
akes to support. Tint substance
the bill his been repeatM to you. Uj
•n affidavits, written Ithiftiuny, tiku
leforehand, and wit holt warning, i
proposes to allow, amonl others, an;
ourt dark or posttnast# to gram
warrant which shall *£»h£iae tbe slav*
claimant to cany tbe man he claim*
irotn Boston to New Orleans.
Suppose the claimant, either througl
malice or carelessness, h*s takeu Un
wrong person, take! a Massachusetts
freeman, how shall the victim be righ
ted? Why, it is said, by appealing t«
some court in New Orlvaus, when he
arrives. But remember the colorei
people are generall poor. Supp sr e
colored man, never out of Boston iu hi*
life, is snached W %J- How is he to
get friends in New'Orleans, where he
never was before, to bring his case be
fore a tribunal? Manths may passer*
that, and meanwhile the poor, friend
less one is melting fort into the indis
tinguishable mass of slaves, and ma\
tie sold and passed on from baud t<>
hand, till redress is impossible.
But suppose sums human person i*
found—the case at last is in som*
Southern court; where every colored
person is perfumed to be a slave until
tie shows the contrsry. How then i*
tlie Boston boy to prove his Boston
birth? Why, you w.ll say, let him
send for his mother, father, brothers,
uncles, playmates. Send? It cost*
immey. Send for their depositions,
ihen! Court street asks money to tsk*
them; the man is poor. But suppose
this svil also is surmount* d. His friend*
ave come to him, or sent their depos
itions. The laws ot tbe S< uth thui out
all thi* testimony! A coloicd man must,
of course, move his birth and residence
by colored friends generally; but no
col- red man can give evidence, in a
.Southern couit, in any case where a
white man is party. He must get w hue
peisons to swear to his past life, birth,
&c., or he must sink down a slave. Iu
nine hundred aud niuty-niue cases,
therefore, out of a thousand, the
Northern freeman, opce intstakenh
surrendered under Masou’s bill, is lost
lot ever. Aud this is tbe hill which tbe
Defender of the Constitution under
takes to support! He knew, or should
have known, that iu Mar; land, Virgi
nia, the Carolines, Georgia, Missouri,
Alabama, and probably in all the slave
States, any pers>'n claiming that he is
w rongfully held may have a jury trial
But tne Massachusetts man mistaken
ly seized, in Boston, cannot have this
old Saxon privilege! He must be sur
rendered whenever any one office un
derling is satisfied, on paper evi
dence, that the slavs claimant is right.
I go into these facts to show that Mr.
Webster, when he surrenders one of
his constituents to Mason's bill," surren
ders him to slavery. As long ago as
I627,kidnapp ing was C'iniinbn in Penn
s; Ivania. They had only to catch a
inan, gst him over the line, aud mingle
mm among the slaves, and he could
n<»t be found again. Mr. Webster
knows that all laws should be guarded
strictly in favor of liberty; so csn fully
guarded as to make mistakes all but
impossible. He has himself told us
that ‘The spirit of linerty is, indeed, a
b »ld and tearless spirit; but it is also a
sharp-sighted spirit: it is a cautious,
sagacious, discriminating, far-seeing
intelligence; it is jealous of encroach
ment, jealous of power, jealous of mam.
It demands checks, it seeks (or
guards, it insists on securities; it en
trenches itself behind strong defences,
and fortifies, with all possible care,
against the assaults of ambition and
passion. It does not trust the amiable
weakness of human nature, and there
fore it will not permit power to overstep
its prescribed limits, though benevo
lence, good intent and patriotic pur
pose c me along with it. Neither does
it sat siy itself with flashy aud tempora
ry resistance to illegal authority. Far
otherwise. T t seeks for duration and
permanance. It looks before and after;
and building m the experience of ages
which are past, it labors diligently lor
the benefit of ages to come. This is
the nature of constitutional liberty; and
this is our liberty, if we will rightly un
derstand and preserve it.’
This very iiitl is such a one as that
against which he thus warns us. The
lull is bad entugh on tba lacs of it;
hut iUs like the Artesian wells, grow
ing hotter aqd hotter the lower you go.
It is naser add baser, the more you an
alyze it.
flWeimnn finds stolen property,
there he is i<< prove thst it is his. Thst
is the coinnu n law. If 1 find a stolen
horse in Marsh field, 1 am bound to
prove tn Marshfield that it la mine, and
not leave the town with it until it is de
cided there by a jury of twelve men.
[Applause But if an unfortunate
colored man, claimed aa a slave, should
go to MarshficW.nnd he would be very
unfortunate if he did, [laughter,] for
of the few men who have been wilting
to oonsign their names to iufiuny by
proclaiming thsir readiness to assist in
a slave-bum, certainly that of Daniel
Webster should stand at tbe head (re
newed laughter]; bqt it such an unfor
tunate should take refuge from a slave
hunter there, he is not to have jury
trial of Maseaehusctte men. No. on
the affidavit, paper testimony of any
body, he is to be carried any number of
thousand wilea-~ carried off hatpleas
Our lathers put U into the Declaration
against EnglanJ, that our citiseos were
Is N t*m§d bt tritd iq Eng
god is the father of us all, and all men are brethren.
land. England! It was the next do*
oJoha Hancock ’a house, compart*
**ith the hopeless distance of New 0*
vans from Boston, lor the poor an
•i iandleas colored wan.
This is not the Constitution. Ba
«s that is, it is nothing tike this. Mr
Webster tries to persuad* Massacht
•etts that he is only supporting ti«
Constitution. The Constitution say*
to all criminal cases, the right of tru
jury shall be preserved; in att Am
ases, where the value is anouftlPtirii
lollars, the right shall be preserved
Now, the slave cause goes either inn
me or the other list. When the siavt
is arrested, it is either a criminal or t
civil cases, and the Constitution, there
fore, requires a jury. Mr Webstei
knows this; and, instead of this Speech
he should have lifted up his voice ii
behalf of this time-honored barrier o
me rights of the humblest citizen. Ii
place of that, Massachusetts is left t<
Seward, of New York, or some West
ern statesman, to defend tor her th*
principles of freedom. [Great enthu
siasm.] Yes we are left for some for
eigner from Massachusetts to put thai
shield over the head of the colored cit
izen which the Constitution enjoins
and which the Massachusetts ‘delendei
ol the Constitution* chooses to forget
[Shame.] This is my gravest chargi
against Mr. Webster.
Once more, and 1 will relieve yot
soon—(go on! go on!)—and that is ii
ihis matter of balancing the compli
ments of the South and North agautsi
each other, Mr. Webster plainly be
trays the bias under which he spoke
Slurting with only s«>me twenty lines
the vast usurpation of new territories
which has comjietely changed th<
character of the Union, he charge*
ugaiufrt Northern legialatoit a want o
fidelity to ibe Consulution.
That argument on the slave-hunt i>
plausibly put together, to convince
Massachusetts that he is only carrying
out the Constitution. The Courier ol
this morning bids us declaimei against
Mr. Webster read the Constitution
aide by side with this speech, and show
where they conflict. Why, the Con
stitution, compared with that speech,
is Heaven; that is hell! [lmmense
applause.] The Constitution repudi
ates such a speech with loatning and
contempt.
Samuel Adams signed the Constitu
tion. He would have let his ami
wither to the shoulder, before he
would have signed to that speech.
[Cheers.] It took one Hungarian,
Gorgey, to surrender his Constitution;
and it took another, Beni, to become a
Pacha with nine tails; but, more for
tuuate than either, in one act Webstei
surrenders both! [Loud shouts and
cheers.] In one act, he was a traitor
to his Constitution, and an ap*>stat<
from Humanity. The year 1760 will
be fatal to other men than Hungarians,
to other lives than natural livea, if we
shall do our duty in this Common
wealth (Prolonged appiibse.)
Thera is one point further, on which
I wi.-h to make a single remark, aud ii
is this: The Southerners tell us, that
the right of trial by jury is inconsistent
with slavery. They tell us, that if th
Southerner is oblig d to prove his title
to his slave, he would be very much
inconvenienced! He cannot tarry st
long! Ha will have to tarry only at
long aa it would take to recover hi*
horse. But if ba ba inconvenienced,
who ia to suffer, he or liberty
1 recollect, in the life of that glo
rious Baptist missionary, William
Km ibb, that, on one occasion, he aud
his coadjutors came to an agreement
with the planters of Jamaica, that
Slavery aud (.’hristianty could not ex
ist together; and tnere they parted.
The planters said, We will extermin
ate Christian ty the missionariea re
joined, We will abolish slavery.’ Lei
us make the same resolve as to Habtat
corpus jury trial, and the other sacred
barriers of liberty. If the choice must
be made between them and chains, dd
not let us make them yield to the con
venience of slaveholders! Which ii
to give way, the rights of freemen, oi
the couvenience of slaveholders i
Which to give way, the rights of the
colored people of Boston, that than
children may not play in safety in th»
streets, protected by just laws, or the
gratilication of slave-catchers in th*
nineteenth century 1 had almost said
that jury trial was a law of nature,
(applause,)—certainly it ia a law oi
the Saxon race; and the convenience
of slavery must give way to that greal
Jury trial which protects the libertie.-
uf the humblest of that race in -out
midst. (Cheers.)
But I would say, point me, Mr. Sen
ator, to one single law on any statute
book, in any free State, inconsistent
with the Constitution of the United
States! Point me to one single Le
gislature that baa ever refused to d«>
what the Constitution bade it! The
moment the Prtgg and Pennsylvania
case was publishrd,in which the Court
said the States had no right to legislate
for or against the slaveholder in pur
suit of bis slave, New York, New
Jersey, Massachusetts, Maine, and ail
the Northern States, quietly yielded
the statute granting jury trial, that
conflicted with this decision. You and
I, Mr. Chairman, want up to tho Stats
House with n BiU based on that de
cision, sod it was pasted in a month.
Thera is not n law on any free Stats
statute-book that conflicts, in tho slight
est degree, with the Constitution or tbs
United State*. Mr. Webster koowi
this to he the case. He said, as
ago, as when he defended ‘he Consti
tution •gait*
resolved not to stunbit, in silence, t«
Accusations either against nry»*!f md.
vtdually, or against the North, whol*;
unfounded and unjust; accusation
which impute to us a disposition t*
vade the Constitutional Compact, an*
io extend the power of the Govei omen*
»ver the internal laws and domestic
condition of the States.’* He said in
March, 1949. to Butler of South Caro
line, *if the gentleman will say that
heir, ready to defend her.* In March,
IB6o— Eheu quantum mutatus ab Uo!
—he has nothing to say on the »übjec!
xcept to accuse his constituents.
Now, having brought th.s unjust
charge against the legislators of th*
North, be turns round, and, in the
North’s behalf, saya nothing. Bui
when he prints his speech in Massa
ehusetts, he prints in it a few feeblt
lines about South Carolinia’s imprison
-ing our seamen. Does he arraign
Legislatures? No! Does he allude to
laws? Never! Now, there stand
upon their statute books, laws which
they know are unconstitutional, making
our seamen liable to be seized and
sold. These statutes they confess to
be unconstitutional, because they for
bid their being passed upon and tried
by any Federal Court. Mr. W'ebster
knows them to be unconstitutional.
Side by side with those statutes,
Louisiana and Sooth Carolina have
enacted that if any person, from Mas
t-arhusetls or elsewhere, goes to these
Mates to make up a case, and try the
constitutionality of these laws in the
Supreme Court, he shall be punished
by imprisonment in the c< mmon jail.
Mr. Webster ktnew all this; vet he
has not a. word to say against the
whole range of Southern legislation,
which is confessedly unconstitutional,
aud which dares not meet the laces of
the Judges of the Supreme Court of
the United Slates.
In his spoken speech, he did not ut
ter a syllable of this. It was publish
ed in the Intelligencer and Union with
out a line about the Noithern seamen.
Put when he was about to send it
North, he puts ir six or eight lines on
the subject. He says, ''lbis is not
only irritating, but exceedingly in
convenient in practice, and seems
altogether impracticable aud oppres
sive.* Well, the speech came to
the people of the North in this seem
ing way; and a great many of the
Massachusetts newspapers spoke out
against its poltroonery, and only on
or two city p<pers supported him-
What doe* he say in his second ‘au
thorized edition?' 'Seems, madam?
nay, it is!' (Applause.) Now it no
longer is inconvenient! »r serins irri
tating, but is 'exceedingly unjustifiable
and oppressive.' His thermometer
has risen ten degrees. What raised
it? The country papers of Massachu
setts! (Prolonged applause.) Let him
hear of s good hot meeting in Faneuil
Hall, and it will go up to boiling point.
(Enthusiasm Why, if we whip our
best, we can whip this top into spinning
at last. That paragraph had never J
been inserted, if the speech had not
been obliged to bear the eyes of North
ern men. He has changed it—changed
it f* r the better. Let us go on, and
we will make him make a better whole
speech still. (Repeated cheers.)
1 know that I have detained you a
great while too long. [‘No, no!*] 1
have endeavored to obey the Boston
Courier, and slick to the speech and
the Constitution. It is not necessary
to go out of the limits of that pamphlet
in order to answer even Daniel Web
ster, in my opinion. But this is no
doubt a momentous question; for we
have reached the great western goal
■>f the world. 'ln that high romance,
if romance it be, (says Edward
Everett,) in which the great minds of
antiquity sketched the fortunes ot the
ages to come, they pictured to them
selves a favored region beyond the
ocean, a land of equal lam and happy
men. The primitive poets beheld uin
the islands of the blest; the Doric
bards surveyed it in tbe Hyperborean
region; the sage of the Academy placed
it ui tbe lost Atlantis; and even 'he
sterner spit it of Seneca could discern
a fairer abode of humanity in the dis
tant region then unknown. We look
back upon these uninspired predictions,
and almost recoil from the obligation
they imply. By us must these fair
visions be realized, by us must be ful
filled these high auspices which burst
hi trying hours from the longing hearts
of the champions of truth. There are
no more coutittema or worlds t<* be re
vealed. Atlantis hath ariaen from the
.tcean; the farthest Thule it reached;
there are no un.re retreats beyond the
sea, no more discoveries, no inoie
hopes. Here then a mighty work is
to be fulfilled, or never, by the race
of mortals. Tbe mao. who look* with
tenderness on the sufferings oi good
men in other time#; the descendant of
the Pilgrims, who cherishes the memo
ry ol hie fathers; tbe patriot, who feels
an honeef glow at the majesty of the
system of which he ia a member: you
are the men, fellow-citizens, by whom
these br ght auspices ere to be accom
plished. This is the last solerne ex
periment ot humanity.
Are the tone, purpose, and resolve
of tbit a peach, those which it is to
he tried? Th* failing l*«art of e 7
hater bf slavery in thee* States an
swers for me, No.
Daniet Webster, in one of his elo
quent moments, when with the aaraeat
of <u?e of his most noble efforts,
he de *unced tbe slave trade in thin
langa.ge, criad tit, pet*
JOHN DICK. Pi»<TM
WHOLE NO. 120.
ivrity to these hearths that we have
kept sacred for them!* ‘Sacred’— how
By Iraviug it to chaoce whether they
-ball be polluted with e chain, or con
secrated to freedom? We call upon
him to come up iu hit age, and fulfil
ho promise of his youth; and if he ie
*vanting, if he has betrayed us, let
nim be like Arnold or like Georgey—
let the axe sever forever the tender
colds that bound him to the heart of
hearts, of Massachusetts. (L< ud
'iHtWET 11 iruemmhtfWtlclt m,»t y
of the moral sense of NVw England,
as to think that he can stand up in the
thee of this community, after he has
pledged himsell to be a slave-hunter,
let him at least learn to respect th* in
telligence of New England, which
knows at least when it is betrayed.
(Applause.) Let us teach him that we
have studied 100 faithfully in the school
where he has been so long a teacher
of glorious thoughts aud noble argu
ments! Lei him learn that we have
been too good disciples not to carry
out his lessons into deeds; that we
mean to stand by the principles of the
ordinance of 1787; that we mean to
beware just where tbe enemy are vigi
lant aud hopeful; that where tbe South
clings with the agony of despair to the
right to catry their slaves into the ter
itory of the West, just there will we
ne vigilant. We will he taught by the
enemy. We will erect the gate that
no man can mistake.
In this speech at Marshfield, Mr.
Webster quoted the ludicrous lines of
Charles 2nd’* lime, when a member
of the House of Commons said, in re
lation to James Sod,
1 hear a lion iu the lobby roar I
Ba>, Mr. anker ahull wt abut the door,
A lid keep bua out; or ah.ll w« let hint is,
And aea if wa can get bin out againl*
Mr. Webster said, 'I was for shut
ting the door, and keeping the lion out*
of New Mexico. What he said in
1848, I desire Massachusetts to echo
iu 1860: even though Mr. Webster has
found uut that there is no danger ol the
lion’s coming in at that open door!—
(Applause.)
Let us cling to fde example of those
long years in which Mr. Webster
thought he was leading the public sen
tinx nt o' New England, rather than
the total suirender ol hia own argu
ments, his own sentiments, his own
thunder from beginning to end, in this
most melancliotj speech.
1 desire to add nothing, in comment
upon Mr. Webster, upon his position,
his course, or his luiure. If he is
willing that the sun of his fame shall
rise to the generation that is to coin*
after us, clouded with such a blot as
that pledge, not only to sustain the
Constitution of the United States, but
the worst provisions of the worst slave
law that ever provoked the contempt
and indignation of any people, let him
do so! it is not for us to judge him.
But when all the great men are recre
ant, Faneuil Hull, at least, is left us.
Itlcoufidence in the present is gone,
the memories of the past, and labors
and hopes for tbe future, ere still
ours.
Mr. Parker said that the citizens of
Boston once met here when the Chesa
peake was captured Wa meet to
night because Webster is kidnapped.
(Choirs.) I remember that 1 once
spoke in this Hull when John Quincy
Adams presided, on the occasion of
the kidnapping of a fugitive slave in
South Bostou We have met now
when a Massachusetts man has been
kidnapped. Let us suve the State to
Liberty. Let us try to save the fame
of the old Commonwealth; aud if we
connot save it, it State street gives in
its adherence, as it is going to do, if
the men that were prominent in the
stormy days of 1812 and 1820 are put
ting their honor* d nam* s to a letter of
approbation lor Mr. Webster, let us,
the little men of the Commonwealth,
have it to claim against the terrible re
buke that is to come to us from tbe
other aide of the water, and from pos
terity, that we raised our voices, leebte
as they were, in the most saer* I spot
that we could find, in behalf ol justice
and humanity. (Great applause.)
But w* need not talk in this strain.
On owr side is ‘every attribute of the
Almighty.’ It will take greater apos
tates than even this one to doom that
fair land long to slavery- God
scooped the valley of tbe Mississippi
as the cradle of bondage, nor pihdthe
Rocky Mountains us ramparts lor ty
rants. That valley is to be trodden by
free leet; those harnesses held by free
hands. Such is, indeed, the ‘will of
God,* which mocks alt the wickedness
of man to gainsay it. [Long continued
applause.]
Comforts and Discowfoxts. —lf
every body understood th* 'ulue of
kindness iu trifles, there would not so
often arise those clouded feelings,
those bitter disagreeables by which
merited people, brother# and amtere.
parents and children, by degrees em
nitter on# a* ther’s lives, end which
ciesie altogether the grew* heavy and
„ppassive cloud—dx omfnrt. A fly
is a very light burden, but if it were
perpetually to return and act itself on
our nose, it might weary us of our
lives. Thera is tiuth to ihe proverb,
“Nothing is a trifle which ie unplea
sant to our friend.’* By the sids ol
this we would inscribe upon the table
of home, “Nothing mrfgnificaot
which gives pleasure to our fttend.
Because from this that bnght
summer atnmaph l oro#
celled comfort. I And without this how
Cold and miserable we are. Religious Recorder
Speech of Hon. J.B. Giddings
£i'fAc /foot °f Representatives, on Monday, March
18,1850, in Committee of the Whole on the Me oj
tie Union, on th President’t Mtuag t translating
the Constitution of California.
[concluded.]
Mr. Chairman, when we say it ie i"
mention 10 ad nit “no more slave states, to. hoi
no “slave territory" we mean what
O i this point we discard the docinne a e
advanced in another part of tie Capitol.
lot illy deny that we are under any moral, po
litical, or c™ns.itutio l ,alohl. jf .t.on to .dm.
another slave State from Texas. We der
that any contract exists between ua and th«.
State. There was a contiact proposed am
submitted to the only power in this Govern
ment capable of contracting—that is, tin
treaty-making power. That power Tejecte*
i it. Texas came into,the Union with lull n.
lice and full knowledge of these facia. »h<
will Dot be deceived nor p thl?
subject, if we iefia3 to admit i mw mne
State from her territory. She.came m b\
joint resolution, and not by contract. 1 the!
denied, and still deny, that even the trfeaty
making power could impose on uS a titium
with a foreign slave Stsfte upon such unequ.->
terms. But most emphsiicallv do 1 deny ib
doctrine thst members of this House in 1845
had jrower to comtol my vote for the adum
ai'»n of a new State in 1850. They coub
admit a State, but they could place me un
der no obligation to act contrary to my oWr
judgement. lam sworn to support the Cwi'
stitution, and solemnly believe that this in
creasing snd extending of ihe Slave Powei
is subversive ot ;he Uoosiiiuunn.
i Sir, to admit more slave States, thereby
increasing the slave Power, and surrendenni.
the interests of humanity to the disposal o
those who deny the '“seir-evidem truth’’
men’s equably of natural rights, is out onl> a
palpable violation of the whole spirit of. the
Constitution, but ft is at war with the vita
objects, the whole design of those who eata)>-
i. liahed our Government amidst toil and datr
r
gera. j
The annexation of Texas was conceived
and urged, and consummated, with the avow
ed intention of increasing the Sieve power
1 Idb not charge Northern men with acting
on this principle; but we know that the of
fleers of the Government, the Executive, ur
ged n expressly on these grounds. 1 thei
denounced itj.as unconstitutional in its ob
jects, its designs, and in the manner of-iit
consummation. So too did a distinguished
Senator in thd othef end of tlte Capitol, whi
now avows hmeelf ready to vote lor admit
ting these new slave States from. Texas, foi
the very purpose of increasing the Slave Puw
er in Otis Gavei iimeni.
Sir, what has wrought such a change iu
the mind of that distinguished
Time will doubtless answer this question
Bui, sit, hofdirig now, as i then did, tha;
Congress any at any time repeal the join,
resolution by which T exas was admitted—
that those who voted for ih»t resolution conk
by it* adoption impose no duty on me to -vote
for admitting other new slave‘Slates,-! shal
at all times oppose such admission. The*,
sovereign States, while united under the same
Consitution, must be equal. Texas brpugh
with huf no claim whatever to be divided inn
four slave States. She can no more claim t
division than Ohio, New York, or Pen nay I
vstrits. The sole object lor such a dtvisiot
ia an increase ot the Slave Power.* To givt
it greater influence,over the .lights and the in
leresia of ihe fee Siatep—to enable it mor*
effectually to withstand the progiesa of trull
and justice—to proldhg its blond stained am
barbarous system of brutalizing our fellow
men. 1
But, sir, the day has arrived when the ten
deacy, the ifleets and consequences of ou
official ana tie known and understood, by tin
People, He who now advocates an incieasi
of the Slate Power, may as welf openly am
f inkly avow his opposition to freedom, hi.
Hatred of the “inalienable rights'' of man; am
declare Tils inteiiTtom to vwtvin oppreeeiot
and slavery. Our actions cannot he mi sun
derstowd in these tunes. He whose soul n
imbued with the love of justice, ofliheity
gad of bis race, will manifest it by his words
by his acts, by his votes. Sir, iWeacta ant
voles are** known and' read, of all mtn.
jit is also’proposed to past luTthet and mori
Stringent law tor the at rein and return of I'u
grirve slaves; to make eveiy postmaster, am
deputy marshal, and other petty, officer oi
this Government, residt-nt in the I tee JSialet
i the catchpole of elave-hunters. We are it
impose upon them the obligation to leave
their shops or their fields, ond give chase t«>
tbe flying bondman ae he hasten* from the
scene of hie oppression; to seize tiw-tieaiblmg
victim to Southern cupidity; to assist ui ns
•ting the cold iron on hie chafed Jjntha, and
then to, force b‘m, back to a land of chains
end sighs, and tears and suffering Yes, sir,
it is now gravely proposed that tflis Congress
of Christian men at this middle of the nine
teenth century, boastmg that wfi' are’sup
rounded by the most intelligent,, free, and
i virtuous people upon the earth, shall turn our
t attention and exert our official influence—ou/,
legislative powei-rrin favor of the vilest sys
tem of oppression.know n among civilized men
ihat we sha I aid ihe airani usurper of the
South to hold his gtasp upon hit ifelUiwman;
to compel nioi to toil and to suffer under the
ncoarge, for the benefit of us oppressor; that
vs will help rob ban of. bis itberty, his en
joy meats, his all, that others may revel iii
r wealth. Sir, I would as soon turn slave-huii
tar ss I would vote lor such a law. Yet 1
do not regret that such a measure is to' -come
before iis. I am wtlliitg to see merubeie
Compelled to show their hands. 1 desire that
tbe country shall understand who is wtijigg
'thus to d*-gMdv the character of American
statesman by prusu unrig pur official powers
to such purposes.
But, there are circumstances which rehdet
auch action at (fits tune stiff more objectiona
ble and humiliating. Since the etilv history
Of ihe State Ttt which 1 live, nn*n haveocca.
stonally e»u»e from the Slave States and kid
r napped our colored people; and. is hen such
»oflbuders ha'e been demanded, as fugitives
from justice uyder the Constitution,‘ their
surrender by the slave Slates has, 1 believe,
at blf times been refused. Yet, the Repre
sentatives ot Ohio are now called' en *e> two
round Mid loud their influence m> caudi and
raturn Southern slave*! When ouf free cob
i.ored people visit the slave States, they,are
seized, tmpiisotied, sold, and enslaved; and
Southern gentleman how askUS'to pWa
law'ihit shafl make it ttiednty of out post
mailers, and' deputy marshals, to seme and
return to boodagw those seiy citizens of Ohio
fibeuld they perdiauce escape from their,. ejip
pressor* io, the. Spufb, and return to their
wives and children in iht-ir uative Siate.^Will
the Representatives of Ohio vote for snch a
Uwf
ihe citizens of Massschnebtts havd been
seized m Sunthern ports, enslaved, sold, de>
graded, and brutalized. They nuw mosa and
weep in oMina r ßepresentatives of ihq
ereignty of Msaeachusetfs,m ht;n sqnt io those
Stan*, in test their, proceediugs judicially,
,have been driven by mob violence from ’Uieir
jurisdiction, and theif ‘l^egfslaturei 1 have
passed Isw*, under Severe per*.
altifis.ktr persons fttan proseouimg the nghu
of each ebsiaxed adaeo* u» freedum,
f 6ir, while ihe South ,ihup, l( tiolaJef
tramples upoa Cunalituiipp, while t^ey
uesnhe trye States, generslly, and M*a*a
ehuaeus in particular, with *host abvfeietgrl
__, contempt, a dieiingulitied Statesman of New
s England, a rtyiddembrivtf wf Massachusetts*
eoffled forward, and; before the nationcludtug
dfthe--(hr thmr lemisaneas
to to aiTvaang sad revucomg fugit|v« slayeu,jftrt*-
s poses that we shall «xe;t our,legislative pow
.era Mh i*y°f S>oulbetn ptrattcaf slaVe liun
CH I |,-|y i
the"proporitioo ia ‘humiliating.
xeefife'dt»h r -*|'t*o>. '‘S‘r. i have
awd.l of d cacti but gmy n
language, u I would vota for *ocb
<ure. To me, ih? alave-hunter. w the mo*,
!ct<p|jj^^u oiiuotc* ,p
rialter to trick wt’the -panfing ii
Nder again to subject him to the JjS and tin
ihuaihsciew. A law haa been toWoduced inn
ihe Legislature qf Qhio; and! am free to sdj
t»*t If there be a etime for which
haig a citizen oTour State, it it tharof aid
tig flld' slaveholder to seize hia iremblinj
victim upon aoilconsecrated to freedom.
You may pass such a law, and it will re
nain a dead letter upon your atatute book
•Our people know-their rights, they under
land their duties to the Government, to thet
f-llow-men, and to their God. The law o
iiudiieas, of sympathy for the oppressed, o
ove to our fellow-men, is written upon ou
natures by the finger of the Most High
you repeal that law-ef the Almighty
i’an you tear from the heart’s core our lovi
of justice—Out hatred t>f crimel 1 Sir, no legie
■atum can effect that object.
Sir, weougui not to deceive Soatliern men
We should say to them, in all frankness an<
-inceriiy, that the day lot arreatiug logit v
slaves within our free States has gone for
ver We abide by the Consiimiwn; on
that instrument doe* not give sufficient pow
er CD the maiier to secure his fugitive shv
when he once readies our free States.* 1
has out.come ap to the expectations of tb
South in tbit respect. It fails lo fetter fir
limbs, lo stop the flight of their, fugitives
They general y reach Canada, and there fm<
an asylum, and every friend of humanity r* joi
cea at their success.
The Constitution has also failed fo protec
<mr colored eiuzens when they go to Souther
States. It haa proved .defective oathis puim
We are willing to amend \i, but we will sink
out the entire provision relating to fugitin
'slaves. such clause can lihd a place 1
thy new Constitution.* 1
In conclusion, i would assure 'Somber
'einlemen, that a portico of our Northeri
c-iiaens Jnve detejmmed on reforming \h
■buses which have rendered this nation sub
servient to the Slave Power.
We wish air to understand distinctly an
fully our views and ulterior 1 designs.’ We in
rend to limit and confine Slaver) to ils pteaeri
bounds; -to repeal *4 ecie of Congress whic
sustain that institution; and totally to snparat
the people of thy free, States aod the Eeden
Government from all responsibility of v #u|
taming slavery or the slave trade; to restor
the Government to the position relative t
that institution m which it was ‘placed by th
Constitution. We tHen 1 hope fo direc
its energies and the the* nation i
..favor of justice, of truth, of liberty, and of hu
inanity.. j. o
1 am aware of the efforts now making t
arrange and to compromise these questions
to quiet this agitation, to roll back the tide ii
Idetmg now manifested, not only in our fre
States, but in Europe, and throughout th
civilized world.' Sir, feeble and impotent ar
the powers of Congress, when brought i
conflict with that using voice of the peopf
now heard in every quarter of oqr nation
Can we. by take from twent
millions of freemen their Consciences, thet
thoughts, their judgement Can weprohibi
‘ibetr investigations of trhihl Thie strdggl
has been going on for centuries. 'Men ma
denounce it, but it will go forward.', Reform
.m all ages, and in all nations, have been de
nounced. Oppression, Gpilt, Crime, alway
?eek silence and darkness; but as intelligenc
increase!, and becomes mo»e and more gen
erally diffused, abuses will bfe corrected
aßd tire work of reformation will proceed
Fur the last twelve years 1 have watch*
the progress of this great political revolution
Its advance has been regular, consiani, art
nninierupted, 1 have seen the influence c
ihe Executive, of Congress,of the public pres
generally, «nd of politicians, put forth to rt
ulru ns progress,but they hare not even check
ed its forward course;
The .arrogance of the Slave Power ha
been beaten back; th« spirit., of .Northern ser
vility has been rebuked, and brought into epu
tempi; the freedom of debate has been re
gained; the advocates'oT truth and justic
hate increased, and ate already seizing upoi
the strongholds of oppression. lo' our Stall
legislatures, the language of freedom and o
truth folds abundant .utterance. With tfu
most unshaken confidence, in, the assuranci
unwavering faith, 1 expect, at no dtstan
day, to see this Government and tjie
of the free States redeemed and purified Iron
the gttilt and the ertmeof slavery.
W Ml* I
XXXlst Congress.—ln Senate.
i AfrrC*. 1850.
The Vick President laid before the
.Senate a communication from th* Depart
ment of the Jnferjo;, and made in /pomplivnc*
with a resolution of the Senate of the 86tn
nltimo, calling for a siaiement of the nuptbei
«f acres Sold ahd remaining untold in Mil
waukee fetid ’dtstndt. Ac jirtiich was ordered
to lie on the tible and bd printed.
MEMORI A LS’AND PETITIONS. 1
Mr; StWAao'presetted three pinions ol
.citizen* of New York, asking that the right
of uial by jyry may he secured bj Jaw'to hi*
giive slaves, yrresied in any other sute theu
that in w|.icb there service fa .claimed.
Also, four petitions 6 1 citizens of th/e agpie
State ai-knig' that rru Stale may hereafter be
admitted into the Unfen 'whsoa constitution
dues tout expressly, prohibit' slavery Wufim
lta limits.
Also, three pptitiqps pf qjtizepsof the same
JSiau*, asking ihsi sfovery and the slave-trad*
may be abolished in the District of Columbia
Also, fotlr petitions of Citizens of the same
State, asktig that slavery abd ’the sjavr
trade may be prohibited by law in ill the ief:
iuoiioa ol the United 3lates.. -AIL of Which
mtmouals were ordered to fie on .the table.
Mr. presented tjhe peiittoe "01-eit
izeus ol Alton, llliqoi*,,asking the adopti**
oi Measures for the adjustment of inlerjiaioi*
at cohirbvirsies; bhfoh was referred to. i.h£
Committee on Poritgn Relations.
Mi. HiMlttN sdbmMted additional dopu-‘
meats relating u* ihe.erectioaofji aew' hgfit
houseand duelling on Boon.t%kad, t>h the
referred <t» tht>
Committee of yoimperqe. ~-j
Mr. Pt'tRCE presented a memorial qf Geo.
Waiterston, a«d other eirncads c»rfh« Distnci
of Columbta; asking the esrsblishrheni of an
'AgricUltasai Cofloge in that Dihtawt. Which
was reforred to ttse Commuiea xn Agrici/f-'
UW# IR d «he wotKjn to prjpt ,w as referred
,*,he GimmUte* V n Pnntmg.
Mr. IVogßis submitted additionol documents
refitting Vd tfiWcUim of John Hbilkhan; which
Were lelhrred'tO'tbk ChhtblitMir bn Clanna.
111'.* ycinfresotuiion
of tt»Legtsiauife«f Indiana, tnetHicting the
Senaima and zeqcesimg. foe ,R«preaema«itres
of>hat t SWq K ffi m.<
exertions to procure a grantor pub ic land fur,
the improvement of lhp 'Wvigaifoft of the'
KankaUbe *n« Ik-dquAud!' riveW? wkre
referred 10 the Cfomnntfod on Roads anfrCaft
■lsrdbd ordused to be pnbtcd. d, T7TT.
Also, aaesaloiion uiihe.aame, in fever of
procuring in apgfppriaMW for pqtßpfoUig Otc
fo m .which
was referred to the Copiaiitiee on Commerce,
ana oidered io be primed- Y
Altw.dftbd'katrih, ji fkvbT trii'hwibfbori
ismgibaccle df the puMfo- fcrelc, iff legal
kubdmMonc, to doikatwiiiercsar she east at
survey and rsdecrtisemcni; .which was rtfeev
ad lo.tfoj Cmammee on Publia Lynda, and,
rue red to HtWWfC u, .„u MJ J 4,
Also, a petition of citizens or Cliy enuniv
in'ilie 6fate of lndiana, In ?*ehalf of RwheV
Well, Widow ofTtionfsk Weit; i'Volbobi&r
in lkie’war>ikirii Mexicb,'asking thki ahe
■nay be aJlsvued c psaShur; wtach war re*
icned to ihe Cummitica on iFtmstogs. idufie
tut*exKd ufoa, petuisna oh
Ufa m*l
u>!a\ff im* m>h f
Government removed therefrom; whj*|weni
ordered to, lie on the Üble.
’.Ale s ten petmous ut citizen*
min os, end a petition of eitijgßfc of Ke*
Jera *y, salting that no State maj.b»lw«*ft*
ad intted into the Union whoaj#
,du'S not exprM»ly prohibit
tfnitsj which ordered i> tie eo tht
r f¥ r> ciiiiena of Philadelphia, ftfWljlWMa.
which were ordered to lit
•n the table.
Also, eight petitions of the same, asking
(hat the right of uial by jury may be eeeoml
o.fugitive slaves, aneated many other Stab
than that in which then service is claimed;
which were ordered to lie on the table.
Also, four petitions, signed by male end fe
male lnhihuantsl "I Peiiisyliafiial adkihg «h<,
adoption oi constitutional measures for abol
ashing slaseiy-ia the U«iied-Siatee;-a»»d *h»e»
(letiitune of male and lemale inhabiiante of tht
same pl«ee, aslfurg tlie-immediate zboltfioi
ul slavery aud thoslave-trade ia the Distric
of.ColuAibia; which. we;e ordered, tw lie oq tb«
table. u
Also, five petitions of citizens of Ohio, re
monstrai ong against the' resolutions submit
red fry Mr. CtsT. dn the "S&h bf January
1850, slid asking the adoptltm of constitution
it measures l<v prohibiting slavery in thi
District ut Columbia,.and .the.alave-trade be
<ween the States, and for-preventing the re
c «f fugitive ulaves which wen
ordered to He on the table.
I Also, a pennon of citizens of Harriaoi
County,'Oh id, asking that slavery may b»
prohibutdtn-fctl tito territorial government;
to bu established by Congress, and that n<
it ate may hereafter be admitted into tht
Union whose constitution does not prohibi
slavery within tty limits; a petition of thi
teacher and pupils nT the "Strfngeravills Se
leci School,Un Cuyahoga County. Ohio, re
incrfisttiiiing agarnst the' compromise rrtmlu
i tiont of Mr. Clay, and'asking the prohibitin'
of>*»la*ery hi Hie District of Columbia, am
the alave-iradn between the States, and. tht
ri pe*} of all provisions ot, the act of 1793, re
apectiHg the reclamation of fugitive slaves.
I Also, a memorial of citizens of Alleghan;
county, Pehnaylfrfnia, remonstrating again*
i the bill now pending be fork-the Senate fd
r the recovery of fugitive slaves, -selling fortl
that Jaws are in lurce in southern States,ii
violation <tf the Cnpatjtption of the Unite*
States, prohibiting tjte eptrspee of citizens, »i
the northern States, apd asking that bll fui
ther action on the bill now pending, for th
more effectual recovery of fugitive slaves, b
r suspended until the*laws of the souther
i States be repealed; all of which were sevei
ally .ordered to*lie on the table..
i THE NORTH STAR.
t l2, issd.
1 tt;
Tm North Star if sometimes sent to friend
who do not takp the, paper, in this hope that the
1 may *e« fit to subscribe for it. Subscription* an
r donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
t dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester
i N/Y.
f .-.1*...,.* i
fJO*WAHTEp—Several Travelling Agents
to, procure subscribers for |he North Star. J
j liberal commission il| be given. None need appl
8 but such as can bring good recommeuduiions fo
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
Erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
I -—-7- r a T—
Anti-Slavery feelings
Will be held'by Cbarles Lenox Remond
of Mase&dum'tcti, and MrrrLtN W. Gibbs
of Pennsylvania, in the following placet, an
on the evenftigs specified
Monday evening, April,Bth Leroy.
Tuesday #ib Batavia.
Wednesday* 10th Bruckport.
j Thursday ti 11th v Albion.
r Ftidsy ••-„’l2th .'Medina.
Sunday ;V Hthr: Lockptm.
Worldly ’.V'rfilh. Buffalo.'
Wednesday,, 17th Jamestown,
l( Thursday 18th Busli.
1 i The friends in the above placet will pica*
make Lbe. necessary arrangements f.»t th«
meeiings, and thereby promote the imeresii
of the‘good cause in their region;
’Rffcwiwrii, Apfi) Bth, 185(7.
1 i
1 North Star Fanr tn -Nbw York.
The official appeal, in behalf of the Fair it
New York, extensively signed by philan
ihropic ladies of jhat.city, wijl be lutind ii
another column of this weekj*, paper. Tin
.time fol holdingr,the Fair i# Aeuiversarj
week; and it Mill be observed, that there
but brief lime for pieparation.. Whatevei
assistance any of oar fiietids propose to ren
der, had better-be rthdered promptly.. Wt
are happy tit state, thdl the Indies of Um
Weateftf ‘NeWYoflf AnYi-StlVery Society
have'decided to ‘Co-ope rale Mth Our frrends
in Nep York, in this‘effort to sustain a fret
press and that'ihpy have already, preparedi
valuable box of articles, pf both FugKsh anc
African manufacture, wjtpb they Intent
i«iwarding forthwith.,,, „i
We aiuicipaie a biiiHant'display of antj
slavery taste, skill, and industry; andjvi
eafluponaß our friends to favor this coining
Fart with iheir presence and their patronage.
-p. U 1(13,1 I 1133 1. I ~i
.i »i ..'i
Tat Aeti-Wobster meeting held recently
‘iti Faneuil TJall;- 'flora- all accounts,. was j
most' interesting and tiWlul demonstration
The grand apostate was handled in a maonSi
not Vo lie despised. Wei givej on the ootskfc
of this number, the speech of Wendell Phil
a most brilliant, powerful ant
f .bigkiint«UecHi|l H njora
advantage,hope thAt,,no leader
the 'North &Ur will deem the speech fot
-lengthy ftw perusalo'i
strui.tri —r»TNT «l II ,I.!
"’•'Twwibiinw Ka direct the

attention of the reader to the Fkespectua ol
'the-ATew Emgbmdt mv*> large.,meekly pry per.
dewed to-Temperance, Education,Lit«ra
tore, Reform, afid -lateUigeMee generally.
Wlth'one’of hd editord we sre personallyao
'4bainted'; at»d l M‘ At ore waf«-hearted’, active
and^industfiofid 1 'worieV in theffeldof phifan
ihroMr, than tie,’ we never met.’“Mr.
#?Rfr ou f l^ r i an 4 native
dWNdWW.*9»BlF»q^iftep*‘i\»m ..for thp.tnj
potfant and laboriopa, d«»««s ever devolving
,wpo» tlie conductor,,of a public journal.. The
Ntto •JjJngkndtr is hifeswi to no temperance
phpcriiithß Xet «S who wish a good
tempettmoe journal,' subseribo fot the New
OtjijWddl'.aAfr.+r'M »l J too
ilt.-l 1,, 4
o GeahfT Ssturw has taetbaaks for his.phls
Addrcwt'dehedred before«the >Alsead»lv. al
’jtlbfci»Y. ,r We dtrall toad' it'-carefully, and
gtVd fhh wHold Subject wf -whleb it treats, s
tWn ts we ean cb«w
m; aotall ptNßhftai mam* t
•>um of the meeting to 1 Shiloh
chureh, New York, with some remarks ot
owowi. R is always gratifying to us u
in wngbli
hot Jo* posy reason*, it is far mors shsoifsg
to observe *nch movements among ounelve*
W« may be grateful that British benevolwc.
hse distributed millions to feed ike Irish pit;
hat s higher sad happier emotion is awaksn
ed, when we learn that thoss destitute mil
lions are, in the sprit of s raasly iodipend
«*se lodustrieusly laboring to supply theii
own wants. In like manner do we Umk upoi
the effoiu of our own people,as compared wjtl,
those made by others. It ia evident, that if.
•och crisis the colored~ man- has -a duty u
perform. His voice cannot now be deemed
impertioeat. The meaibrek maturing a
Washington are not only intended to' fasten
the Chains" of slavery more firmly upon the
limbs of the slave, and to make the North
less secure for the fugitive but they strike
a fatal blew at the liberty of every free col
ored mat in the North.
“t‘
We are therefore happy, that at such a
fime, tbs colored citnens of New York and
Boston kave come forth with their views on
the sulpcf. Philadelphia should apeak. Its
citizens are peculiarly exposed to the incur
sions of rapacious slavehunters; and in the
event of the passipg of Mason’s Billj we
have no doubt that a vigorous slave-catching
.business will be driven in Philadelphia.
There are those who think that the pro
posed law*, if passed, will become a dead
letter. We differ from such persona, li
there be not sufficient moral power arrayed
against it, to defeat its adoption, from whom
can we expect the moial power to defeat its
execution 1 There are those in our large
cities who would delight in a slave-hum
wereyhey protected in the infernal chase b)
•be sanction pf law. Let us not be deceived
Those editor* who stand by Webster and his
slawehoiding wickedness, afford no assuutnct
i that they are too virtuous to reduee theu pio
f fiigate theory to practice. The ajfelogy
1 which they make for their position, is tlk
Constitution and that is bioad enough t<
shelter any abomination.—r. b.
i.
Meetings at Canandaigua and Roch>
i ester,
1 These meetings, summoned without res
pect to party,’ and made up of persons o
every shade of anti-slavery Opinion, were no
large—not what those who were most activi
I in getting them up, hoped they would be
The omnipotence of party power was neve
moip manifest, io either Rochester or Canan
daigua, than on the occasion of these meet
mgs. Silent, hushed—-but active, vigilant
1 and persevering, the whippers-in of boil
parties, doubtless, did their best to traiums
the Itboial-minded, and to keep them awa<
from the meetings in question. In Canan
daigua, ihe leaders in the Whig eauip wen
deeply fearful that our proceedings woul<
weaken, rafher than'strengthen, the hands o
1 Seward, Hale, Chase, Giddings, and other
who are just now battling nobly with thi
1 slavcfcowe*. It was thought that our rasl
radicalism would prejudice our cause, am
put weapons into the bands of our enemies
1 What prudent men! how learned! hov
wise! But their wisdom is to be seei
chiefly in the crafty manner in which the;
always manage to give an anti-slavery reasui
for a pro-slavery couise of conduct, if the;
were afraid that the cause would be injure*
by our imprudehi advocacy, why did they no
themselves give that cause (fur which a feu
i months ago, they manifested so much devu
i lion,) thq benefit of their wiser counsels ah<
qtoto dignified advocacy. But this ibey haVi
<wt dune aad we test they will not do. Wt
must, therefore,be content io toil on, wtihqu
tire aid of 4he wiae and the learoed. Thej
are nut'quite prepared to euter our proscribe*
ranks, arid acknowledge’ the. black mao as i
brother. There is yet too mnch ediuxu at
taching to bur movement, to allow prudsn
men to unite with us. It is noW, as it Ini
e.ver been, sincp the work commenced, neces
st/y to tegard our’ pause a* a haled cause
and 40 work for it. as though we stood alone
in the field.— rfi, p*.
Tri* following resolution* were pasted si
the Cariaftdaigtfa Convention.--
t,u„! T
1, Resolved, That while We love the Cub
stituUon and the Union, we vifue Ihem only
as'means Of establishing jukticej securins
the blessings of liberty,-and' promoting the
general welfare;” u
9. Resol vedy That so fir as they have been
perverted from-those noble ends, to.uphold oi
spread American slavery, t.pey haye cMMd
lo be vqjvfble »,.iheJUiuon ha* been endan
gered and that, instead of yielding .tv .tliK
present demands of ihd slave-poU-'er, to savi
the Tfntd rt,” the arfojition of lira Wilmot Pro
viso, eod'sti ami-slavery ariuiiivistraf lon'of the
government, ate the be»l meansil-r.preserving
the Uuina, sub the only means that make u
worth (ireseryiug.
3.-Resolved, That we demand the appli
cation of (be Jeffqtsonian Ordinance of; 1787,
Wi.*H .s* Territories Wired S.i,*|e* f
i he .prohibition of slavery Ul the District,ql
Columbia, arid the” goaftrlty to tfver'y State
in this ’Union, of a republican forte of’gtfv
'rirtobbne,that *hall *‘secure the right bl
evetV euswn, in his pevsuu aud property, and
iu their management.”,
4. Reaolvud, (krmprumise or- no cstepro
miaerpCunaUfjuliop or np fipngtitution; whether
escaping fugitive frqm *lavejy shall bavs
bis trial for freedom before a jury, or upo-sla
very post-msafer, or whafsmJvdr iribunal—
that rid «r a Bril of safe
(rotii XZti AlffftgHty M can esuhfiati the 'tikTe
of the master to his elave; or mducb'fiir tti
kft'U finger W-hiri in his reUitifHo the bo Use
of boodati«.t e o'
'*6i Resolved, that tho .xeceot speeches Of
Wm, H:Seward,! Joshua R. Giddfr gsiJwhh
£.JH*}e» Hovacu Maw, S. P. Chase* snd
whw*, Jrj,the Congress ol ihe .United States,
while they contain some idirmsions and cop*
cessions wbtcH-wfc candrif give ev)-
ifeMce, “neVarthrileds, of no -snwU degree of
pfogrewp io' tbs national hooscils, m with 5
SMndtng ehn usuigallons, 0 f the slavepowep;
•sa.afbrd’cheeting indic» uw the spirit
qf Northern freemen is qpt.quue exiinyi,
will yet become predominant and victorious
Rhsplvid, Thst tke 'berfidious snd
heart leak course of Jfcriief Websinr, in
-Senaus’of Ymted Sure#, is disgrace
norridly to Maraachu»etts but tothe entirs
North, and’Calls fwn.lha iwhgusuirehuheol
freepwtpjs. r,f"„f
That the. 4m«wan chureh
and .clergy fpr the
jrtwiw. s> ■VT.yvffj-’fflS ssHsriT’
®r dutV fidihiutly, fearlessly j and
pdMvsiMgty, ihts more oi ctunea would
wok auihtio axial«u wM «**iw
tlHi li i ft
«trail) h'vn##*., a ,i„j
Latter from a tier*holder.
Biloxi, (Mm.) Mu. 86, 1850.
F. Douglass: I am in receipt of yoot
letter of the 86th Feb., ia which you remind
me that I owe Joa two dollars. I herewith
fend that amotttt. Instead of adding
subscriber to your Rat, allow me tojaiiMraw
my name. I never Wts voluntarily jphor Sub
scriber, as you knofK.ff aid you published the
circumstances undsr wbiuh I became eo, in
tlie first paper f»e. The pap*** J
have received hate disappointed From
*’hat had been said oT yoa bjrfoor friends,
md whit I had seen of you and beard from
you, while you were addressing s crowd of
your own friends, iff your adopted State, on
one of the few occasions that I have ever
,'*een out of the slave States, I believed ibai
yini would do good, by exposing in strong
language, the too comtno cticc among
many of the Creole popu' *>sr )f Louisiana;
such as requiring slaves: te 1 Won h part! ol
every Sunday,-providing* ,tl nn scanty Ibod
and cldtbing, and in ab,o“ a knees Itflietinj
punishments Which i ftV'f t hd degrade the
•lave, and destroy his health arid usefulness.
I thought that an exposure by you, in qthei
Suites, of the unusual cruelties practised,
which had fallen under your observation
wpuld have the effect of rerpoviog those op
pressiont upon the black man, and of benefit,
ing his physical condition. To effect this, 1
ihought you would deal with thosubjsct’uah
didly that your object bfeing 1 to benefit tht
jierisning slave,” your strong common sens*
would indues yea* to hold'yourself strict’)
within the bounds of truth that your pic
tures and descriptions would not be so highly
colored, as hot to be recognised by the slave
holders. I was prepared to make maay.al
lowancet on account of your past condition-*
to excuse alight embellishments,] and pardoi
small exaggerations. In all this* I have beer
disappointed. Indeed your whole policy vrai
misconceived. Your indiscriminate obtisi o
slaveholders—your inflammatory appeals t<
your colored and white brethren of the North
—your violence and wonlonneSs in attacking
the Coustitulion of our common country, am
your willingness to see h violated in the mos
open and palpable manner, have convince!
me that you are doing hartp m the black race
and, mure firmly livening their chains. lan
net, therefore, your” dear friend,” as yoi
style me I am not a co-worker with you it
yotir cruaide agamet the best interests of you
race.-* 1 have heard year patiently for om
year. 1 took your paj>£r because it was of
fered as an argument by one of your friends
and I was willing to iTsten, not only to whs
your friends had to say on these excitinj
subjects. Delibeiately and calmly 1 decidi
against.you, your paper a.nd your cause.
As far back as I can trace my ancestry
they were sHtvehoiders-*-not ‘‘slave-dealers T
and without any desire tor act tra my owi
pari, I have been always a slaveholder.
I am working 188 slaves a*, my bnck-wQrk
i at this place. Some I own, and some 1 hav
.hired. I work negroes, because their labor
from the very nature of the'institution, unde
I a Southern sun, can alone be relied upon toil
fcrlqinty; ami not becagae slave labor is mor
profitable than white labor w<»j}!d .be, rf w
bad no slaves. If 1 could will the juistitutioi
of slavery out of existence to-morrow, to
I inoirow there would be no other than volun
i tary slavery on this comment; and by tb
annihilation of the institution if slavery,
should feef that 1 had benefited my own mor
than the black race.
-t”
i Ia caacluajon, 1 must add my firm belief
r that-it is not in the power of any bumsi
I being to. benefit the present condition of thi
i slave, when owned and cared for by an hon
eat man.
You will oblige the by a discontinuance o
I your paper. t
Respectfully,- Ac.
i f J W. t*. KENDALL.

P.S.at New Orleans, 27th March. Sinci
writrna the above, I reed’ it tt* a geqtlemai
who iaa native of the'South—who has *1
his'life beCn aCCustontert io slave labor, am
has deliberately iuv'eMiguied the subject o
slavery,' and therefore "has richer owned i
C- T I* 1
alaye; agd requcua me to expreaa to vou hu
firm ponviefion, that slavery is a great bless
ing to the black race, and great curse-ft
.thp, whi*e race. w. k.
|ml will
1 v lu ift i I v*
i Rx#akx«.. Wf *n My. Brad burn sent ui
the name uf our akveholdmg coxrespondem
as a subscriber, to the North Star, we could
net but be glad, though we felt, almost sure
that the writer would soon become annoyed
by our animadversions-- orr slavery and slave
holifdrs, ind would abandon the paper. Iwe
persons could not' well be" placed in any cir
cumstances more unfavorable to harruonool
i «k< I -a (|iti fc> t j *5:
feeling and unity of Opinion, than the hihvc
and the slaveholder. They are opposite^
ivl j.
and extremes, which can nevp* meet. The
pud l b' lion may l|» together* bpi
tbft.sla e ,apd w .)pe sJpvyboider never. js’e
uweeo these \benj ip. a, grtis* gulf ’fixed.
Wuh't fulLknowledge of these simple truths
at iha fitst, we cannot) *ay,wkh our.aJare
t holding aorrespondentv that We are. a* all
M at the vermioatioo which he
has put to b6r further intefcmnse-wkh him.
If'We feel ady stnrpnse, it te fAbre on account
of |i\s gentlemanly bearihg towards up, than
ou account of ,the conclusion to which hd has
s a,, anji ,I J 1
coqaei,, In r^spec? hta,example might be
North
wpper, .wJttPte great con
sequeace it derived/tom, ibe.imwnify with
whteh becin.itisaU a negro, Jq, this letter
rhfeie wv-no- wanton and meaningless flings
or Sneers kt'Ooi'coafphiKionA 4 He has written
rtepfettfuttyvif' not cotfdvally:- If* he does not
i steerfi dk'as a friend, he"does hot despise ps
asrk fhPti. In oift* reply',' werfleshe to be a»
M he* being pnfaiiWui J
thrmgiilhc meed of praite wp have extended
w.,m
.oauawh- fpr us, jp bd fhfth-
M ip a.slavehujdqt, ja jtp, wd
in -peppilaat -esJUmahnc, r,A jo entjlpver, ofViy
Wlow- ntea—a pranotw *of t ignore nee, yicy,
ind crinSe, must be hSSnded hefisra tbs,world
aa>« flagrant the government
ibk happintes bf man, aod in a
Ch'rfstidfripirit exhorted to repent. Any
other mode of trestmetit Would be mera aliaar
siiii 'of course utierly useleaa. And id pot
siting an open and bold exposure of slatery
•pd "sfaveiioYders, one tv^o 1 results Will
,„,r;
thr hM
•tflj “tfrU 1 ..Ihlt, t* ||s{ ilptey'^
<i«n «*1 l«4# pve« ->isUv>-’//
fallen to our slaveholdiog correspondent.
Would that hie heart had \*eo touched, soft
ened and contorted T Would that ha eooW
have rise* sqMriot and
broken ehaWrof like a
ha|e serpent, hat aim!
ffkt, ala** Sit," yoa Save decided to ehm
out fpti-slavery light from'your miad, and
ttata already adopted the dq* system of rea
soning common to the meet hard«s£d slave
holder*. We ooßjurejoui j>y the high value
«>f your own soul, to reconajdef your deter
minatioß. You daanot be aatiafied with your
preeent position. Tbia is apparent in the
very before ua; for though you are
now, and always>have been, a slaveholder
yoo are careful to mention that you ate so
not by desire nor act of your own and you
are further careful ta state, that yoor ances
tors ware slaveholders. .i~.~j~.i~.
Now, in this evident desire to put t{ie beat
TaceNipoa your position, onry be easily read
ihe workings Of* a disquieted Conscience.
Why hot' yield to ft# demands, and be at
peace! Why attempt to appease its urgent and
just requirements by merf word wise distinc
tions! Why distinguish between the slave
holder and the ls not the latter
comprehended in the.former If the one be
right, cait, the other be wrong? You hold
Uie slave as property. Tuts comprehend* all
else. You can go no farther than- this. It
is the highest crime you can commit. Then
again, yoer beeomthg a slaveholder without
any desire hr act on yodr own part, may we
sakj What does it avail, when you admit, aa
you must, that you do now hold slaves by
your own desire, apd.by your own act? Why
implicate your .ancestors, to exculpate your
sell! Why use a reproach with which yout
posterity may assail your own memory Ii
the plea you thus make he a good one, how
long will it remain bo Does it strengthen
i or does it weaken under the weight of yesrs!
You say, that as far back" as you are able to
i trace your ancestry, they have been alave
holders: tell us, Hava each generation oi
them thrown off their sins upon the' preced-
I ing generation, and ia it not likely that sue
ceeding ones will do the same Oh! blinding
I and bewitching voice of selfishness! into
what maxes of confusion, falsa logic and ab
i surdity dost thou-not lead:? _
It is more than implied in .yo'ar letter, that
1 you were induced to subscribe for the North
Star, under a misapprehension of its char
acter. We submit, that this ia no fault ol
ours. You knew its editor to be an uncon
cealed denouncer of slavery, in all its forma,
and identified with what are called, by wny
of reproach, the moat radical elasa-of aboil
tioniata. We have deceived no man and i|
you have been deceived, yon have beeu self
deceived. The good you expected from th«
paper, was not that aimed at by its editor—
i not that declared upon the face of every num
her of it which haa yet been isaued. It wai
i not to correct the incidents of slavery, but u
abolish it. It was not to expose the cruelty
of Credit slaveholders, but all slaveholders
r whether white or colored. i,
1 Not are we at all conscious, that in. tin
pursuit of this object, we have ever beer
reckless of truth, or unjust" Vo any. W<
1 defy you 10 disprove a single charge evim
nude ia its columns, against slavery in gen
era!, or slaveholders in particular. Our col
5 urau* shall be held at your serviee for such i
f purpose, whenever yqu choose. te occupj
ihe n.
You doubtless thfnk that something is due
to kind rossicra, and perhaps' rank yquieel
i among the number. To all such we say
I kind or ertie!, you are bound to quit you
grasp on your slaves. You have no right
but the right of a robber to your victims
f Your fancied kindness,to what does jt amoun
when set against the loss of liberty, the lost
of progress, the lose of the means of edu
cation, and the overwhelming degradation tc
which UteQslave isaabjected—the mere pack
horse of another-—« man taaneformed into a
beast of burden—a name which might fc en
rolled among the blest on the Lamb’s .Book
of Life, saorilegidusly degraded to place in
the pages of your-iedgCT, with Norms, sheep
and 'swine? Perish’ill shows df kindness,
when they are (hbught to conceal 6r to pal
liate the damning character oTslavery.—X. V.
i ait! 7 akils :4*
t.. Johafi. Cslhoi*,.,,,
It is not for the eiesture of* a day, who
may be called to his-account-in an instant,
withoat a nefte of Warhfibg, to rejoice in the
deklh ofkrty fnanyet no shite who at ail
compiehends the mighty 'inflhence exerted
in ,favor of .slavery, by this champion! Of
human bondage, while alive, can hafd one
tear,/to shed oyer hip yemoyal from'this
breathing world, 'Whatever .pf genma ite
possessed, was all steadily, unceasingly ynfi
sternly devoted to one iuiaxnal end—namely,
ihe 1 perpetuity and prosperity of slavery.
L During-his long-life* ho h%* taken care that
ibe lriatoriair shall retard, as emanating from
him, dot Sne wortf of condemnation of- this
Vile aysiehi' of aboraination—notOne "Word
of sympathy foy the toiling bondman—nbt
one wh/ch posterity can distort" Into’it'
recognifiou of .the plfvq>
C ajbngo haa, uniformly spoken apd acte<j ip
one direction;. and, t# the. foal bout
life, his mind brooded gjoeunily over plapq
whieh would have eflectuady.riveted the fet
ter and the chain upoai dme aaiHiSns.vaf his
coimtrymen. For si** a man wfc Hava no
tears id ahdd 4 1 We'ifattrc him ttf the judg
ment to* which 1 he hd# gone.-Udd hiametn
6fy tO'thejhdfemeiWcf mankind d! 1
n•■) ->.lll a »,aj#|i 4« n
i Dtesirals k^(iiY?ii»«; u
1,1 •-'••V .ftjl' ft -lit" ii)l 1>«I«
Rumors are ufe of plots to re v ,u oni
Cuba. The Ifew YorV.Exprdsa fiai' informa
tion from’Havana,^thiit‘the riufnbet bf Attutrif
chh frSvalWrtfHhdiWdls Marah was
so great it hat hardly cuMain
ihem. ’Their preseaoe litece prpbabh, haa
some connection wijb jfMPßWfflf
.tMMtospnmjtA&Smt*"
cent upon fhe island. The Grovernment of
ndnik of tHi’ hjvoldtihttidta'" The iuDow nir
li the New York of- lJi
triday ilcoug luw, |>i i
“Mighty immorimujronk Wmshmgton
r Innate u c...f» V
a W asHiMdTOttvMarch liifh
t‘l» a<jdibun uatfia facia i, tehwrapbad,
he ExpreM-yeateiday,J qvftiWPt
Ifß 3 *#l f? Uattr-4 ft# 1 f»||| II i
a. Th# ‘Command has teddewd nn,
wvwrar lniieouah'4ue*t«ihollti North and
twMvtor |«dl i#|s «4| v,
f UI MW| W #|j H
himself m vigorous!y as he'uught to check
the invasion.
“4. That then is no more known about
this enterprise, here in Washington, than you
at tbs North base suspicion of.
Ji h*’® to-day beaid other wsll-autheotf
eated reports of other forces leaving this
country for the general rendeavous at Chag-
There can be no doubt the demonstra
tion will be more formidable than has been
anticipated.
“I shall telegraph you again when the
‘ieakmgs-out’ justifiy.’’
Spain will never* abandon this rich pntaaa
aion without a despe ate struggle. W» have
no doubt that the Captain General ia invested
with authority to rmanetpate and arm the
slaves, if such a policy should become neces
sary to save the island from the hands of the
revolution*,. These men may be the blind
instruments of producing a convulsion which
shall shake the slave system on this conlt
n<MM f il f Era.
MW Milling at 1-riniMnn Hall.
This meeting, aaeombled at. ft o'clock in the
afternoop of Aftrli sth. and waa organized by
the appointment of JAMES P FOGG, Eaq.
as President F. Smith, Esq. Vice-
President; and Geo. W. CutUU. Secretary.
A committee to draft resolutions was then
appointed consisting of the following persons;
Geo. W. Clark, Wm. Goodell,
Benj. F. Smith, Fred. Douglass,
S. D. Porter, Adam Elder.
laaae Post.
The committee, after a brief consultation,
reported the following aeries ot resolutions,
which were accepted and laid before the con
vention:—
Resolved, That while we love the Consti
tution and the Union, we value them only as
means to an end, viz: the establisnment of
justice—securing the blessing of liberty and
promoting the general welfare.”
Resolved, That so ftr as they have been
perverted from these noble ends to uphold or
spread slavery, they have ceased to be valu
able—the Union has been endangered, and
that, instead of yielding to the demands of the
slave power to '■'soot the Uniun”—\h e adop
tion of the Wilmot Proviso; and an anti-alave
ry adminiatation of the government, are the
best means for preserving the Union and the
only means which make it worth preserving.
Resolved, That w» demand the application
of jhe Jeffeison Ordinance of 1787 to all tha
Territories of the U.S.; the prohibition of
Slavery in the District of Columbia, and tha
“guaranty to every -State in the Union of a
republican form of government, that shall ae
cdre the right of every citizen in his person
and property, and their management." (Jef
ferson)
Resolved, That the reoent speeches of W.
H. Seward, S. P. Chase, J. R. Giddings,
Horace Mann, Wra. A. Sackett; Thadeua
’Stevens, Cot. Bifesell, and their worthy com
peers in Congress in behalf of Freedun, while
they qpntain some admissions and concessions
which we cannot endorse, give evidence,
nevertheless, of no tmall degree of progress
in the National Councils in withstanding the
slave power, and afford cheering indications
that the spirit of Northern Freeinen ia not
quits extinct, and will yet become triumphant
and universal in this country.
Resolved, Thai (fye rectot speech of Daniel
WebMef ’oit the question in the Unti
ed States Senate, shows a lamentable want
of moral principle—a base and cowardly ser
vility 19 the slave powpr—is inconsistent with
,hi* previous expressed opinions—u dishonor
able to the Statesman,tteacneious to the cause
of Freedom, and is, to use the emphatic lan
guage of this Senator on an other occasion,
a speech not. tit to -aa j^del”
Resolved, That in the language of Ed
mund Burke., as recently quoted by Wm. H.
Seward, ni the Si pate of the United States,
“ThdYeis but" one few for aft; namely, that
laW which governs-all; rhelaw of our Crea
tor, the hrw tof hum&nivy-, jurttoe, equality—
ihs law.ofmature sudol natioua. Se far as
any laws fortify .tlvja pMmeval.laWk and give
it it more precision more, energy mpre effect
by there such laws enter the
saiictuary and participate In the saerbdness of
its chancier. But llleimn Ufot quotes as
•'precedents the' abuses of tyrants in<J robbers,
pirHtitea thdVery Idundaiioa of’juatice, dts
(roys the foundations qf atf Arts,and .therefore,
jreauoyes the only, wieg.patd.sgai.nst .evil men,
.whethergpverpprs or governed, the guard
prevents governors from' becoming ty
rants, and the governed from beddoiiug reb
dtt,” Thdidfore--—• i*-■
f Resohed/Thst, in the word* of Wm. H.
Seward, ia-the speech above, meaueued, all
humau ‘’‘.laws must bo brought to the stan
dard of the la« of God, ,ft»d must stand ot
fall by it.”,
Resolved, That we Hail, with
emotions o’fhigh hdpCJnd grttirode, the pro
‘thulgsttrfn in the National ••Senate of those
fundamental- ptineiphw of cwl government,
and-of civil law,without which, cjvrl govern
imeat itaelf by becoming, so oppressor, falls
.into contjempt: and civil society becomeseithat
degraded and servile,, or upcontrolfable and
disorganized. 4
11 Resolved, Compromise or no compromise,
constitutiott'or- no coodHtutioßi' whether the
eeeapmg fugitive from slavery shad have his
trial for freedom beture a jury-,, a pro-slavery
postmaster, or whatever tribunal that no
testimooy short of a ..bill of .sale., from Al
,mighty p"d can establish the“ title of the
master to h» slaved orlhddce us to lift s fin
ger to aid' in hrs return to the house- of bon
dage. 4,
1 The above resolutions were diaehiaed dur
ing the' afternoon' Kittf eittritig by Messrs.
Goodell, Douglass. Fisfi", Eldir, Gteig, and
othery, and passed unanimously.
foilowfing letter "way received from
.Pen. yr. Pmt t E*q, »nd r««d to the Conven
tion:— i
..i Rochester, April 6th, 1850.
Mr. Gdo. W. Clarko—, ,i» t M 0
Hear. Sir: l regret that lam ppahle to at-
Cfiise, Seward, fitssell and'oiherd; in behalf
of Hhtaan 'Freedom, hoWiver i triay differ
’frtMirtSOmwof them in opinion 1 upoa dther sub
jects, meets my -warm -approval.. The great
question tefJhKSflnai liberty ssjtgaiitet Chat
,teliSl4verg fc «|l othsra,
men pfall partipq ahopld units
in cheering on those who battle fqr human
rights ana/fee"soil. TrdstiHgthat your Con
'VdhVttfh'hlky e*ferctua a irauence at
‘tfaia‘eriß*r I, .‘l-asv, trulydeurs,
i.. t
»"°A Iresdletioo wasdhan adoyied respectfully
reqdetting the city papcnmo fmbli»h the pro
ceddihgs ahd rtsbltmons, when the meeting
adjourned.' ,M t»•••#♦ v» t...»
t A large number ofsigh'atuhti''wai obtained
Meeting ttf protesting
against (ha paSadgd bf hfssdn's, dr iny other
tl
'|*l J Or? I T*.> lu n ->|j> *<w ftdlT rtl
w*.„s
•••'"‘V" Mr.
Frtfm'ilfr fMffrfoi of MV. read 1Q
,ht, Ja&gtVtnbk, tlm he
Can!
bna; htarrh*Mkhi«47Mla». H» father, Patrick
at
Mareltftfmft felting.'ia>at< i*« coun
ty. Cslbtemsasretd tits akiMhtmd with
ew advantagea of edyc^qft.,,Atjge agt of
H#l louim tv im«l
•1 Horn f fiviatstf* isn .dosifl
Columbia eu. t Georgia, but ha did not enta
hi. academy till he was nineteen. Hia pro
great here was rapid, and in 1909 he hecim,
a student at Yale College, where two y™
alter waids be graduated with distinction.
He thao studied law, praticed a few year
In the courts of South Carolina, and sub
sequenUy served some time in the Legislature
of hia State.
In 1811 he waa elected to Congress,and dis
tinguished himself by his advocacy of bellig
erent measures against Great Britain.
In 1817 he entered the Cabinet of Mr.
Monroe, and was placed at the head of the
War Department, in the efficient organiza
tion of which he displayed consummate ab
ility.
At the capitation of Mr. Monroe’s Admin
istration, Mr. Calhoun was elected Vice
President, and io«»k Ins seat as Ptseident ol
the Senate, March 4th, 1825. General
Hayue having vacated his seat in the Senate
to became Governor of South Carolina, Mr.
Calhoun resigned the Vice Presidency, and
waa elected in his place.
At the expiration of his term, he went
into retirement, from which he waa soon call
ed to fill the vacancy in the Cabinet of Mr.
Tyler, occasioned by the sudden death ol
Mr. Upshur, Secretary of Slate, His con
nection with the Executive Department of l*>e
Government terminated with the close of Mr.
Tyler’s Administration, and soon after he
was elected to the Senate, in which he held
seat for five years,—ttU.-ifee day of hi*
death. For forty years he has been connected
with the public service, occupying position*,
of great responsibility. Mr. Clay, who was
his senior, entered Congress about the same
time that he did, and Mr. Webster, who ws*
of the same age, entered it three years later.
—National Era.
To the Friends of Freedom ond the
Press.
The ladies of New Yotk, in view of the
gteac benefits resulting fromlhe profession
of an organ devoted to the cause of freedom
and the elevation of their .oppressed race;
and being well assured that the “North Star”
is an instrument in that cause, which fiom
the xeal devotednett, and intelligence of it*
Editor is calculated to effect in a gieat mea
sure the object for which it labors—fix., the
emancipation and elevation 0/ the colored
people, and is therefore worthy of the pat
ronage of every American citizen, particular
ly those for whom it labors; —have formed
an Association for the purpose of holding a
fair during anniversary week in May next,
to aid in sustaining said paper; that its bea
con-light may continue to shine until every
bondman shall behold and be cheered by its
rays. The association will also endeavor to
extend its ciiculation, hoping, that its truths
may penetrate every corner of that den of
oppression (the South) and cause “light to
shine out of darkness,” that its exposure of
the crime and honors of Slavery, of the tears
and groans of the slave, may soften the hard
hearts of their oppressors, and cause them
“to proclaim liberty throughout the land unto
all the inhabitants thereof.” That the apolo
gist of slavery at the North, may receive
this light in in. on icith the South, and tyran
ny and oppression cease forever.
The association earnestly solicits the aid of
every friend of freedom and fhe press; and
sincerely hope that no one will lose this op
portunity of extending their generosity in a
noble cause. Every person must be convinced
of the power of ihe press, and should there
fore, exert theii utmost influence to sustain!
it. Tne question then is, will you assist in
eutmining it I If so you have an opportunity of
eo doing by contributing to the “North Sur
Fair Association.”
A box of valuable articles has been received
from friends in England aa a donation, and
the ladies of Philadelphia have promised a
donation of articles,also. Will not the friends
in other sections of the country emulate these
noble examples? Your co-operation in this
work is needed and much desired.
The Association invites the 00-operation
of friends of other cities, in this woik and
labor of love.
Donations will be gratefully received by-
Mra. E. Bastien, 6 Albany St; Mra. E. Ber
rien, 80 Wall St; Mre» J. M. Foster, 11
Thomas St; and Miss F. Tompkins, 180
Church St.
In behalf of the Association.
EMELINE BASTIEN, Directress.
Fanny Tompkins, Secretary.
orrjctßt or the n. i. r. association.
EMELINE BASTIEN, Directress.
CATHARINE ROBINSON, 2nd do
Fanny Tuokfeins, Secretary,
Elizabeth Jinninos Asst do
Jan* M. Forten Treas.
-i Commit it* of Arrangements.
Rosetta Cowes, Frances Brown,
Elisa Berrian, Catharine Gaotoo,
Mary E. Ellis, Adeline Felix, n<
Christiana Ellis, Mary Leggett,
Mary Crummell Mary Roselle,
Serena Downing, Maria W. Stewatd,
Muia M. Degrasse, Thereat Timingham,
Rebecea Downing, Priscilla Blake,
Sarah Aldridge, Annette Ponteau,
Hannah Frances, Mary Pegrin,
Sarah Atkina.
t f
To the Editor of the North Star
I observe in a late number of your paper
a brief article addressed "to correspondents”
who have from all parts of the country,
queried of you respecting the “mysterious
noises’ 5 which have indeed made so much
noise in these latter days.
In the editorial alluded to, youaay,—“Be
ing too much engaged in the diacharge ot
Xha numerous duties of our position to reply
to our correspondents upon this subjecty indi
vidually, we beg to state to them briefly,
through the Columns of the North Star,
firstly, th»t we have heard the rappinga” lie.
We have never received any intelli
gence from those alleged spirits; they
the earth, earthy,” tad possess no mote
illumination than we, wh6 are vet in this plod
of cumbrous clay.”
Now, friend Douglass, lam net going to
j|pd fault with you for any myttpr therein
contained; neither shall I blame you that you
have not chosen to slip the Anti-Slavery har
•eee, for the psrpoee of paying more atten
tion to things which seem to you to occupy
so outer field in which you have no work to
do. 1 love the God-approved cause in which
your physical energies and devoted mind are
•sgaged 100 well to ask you to rob it of a
single hour ot labor, omo halt in the battle
While the foei* yet unsubdued. "But as an
impression exists in my mind that twtny-of
your readers, and especially the ooryesptw
dents referred to, have a strong desire .to
know something definite of What is to pus)'4
posts';, sed biiiwPMsi^ibtiyudcp.
<p>l .-I -f 1-m |J||
iWI
gfcgqgt* A I j
r portumtie* of oWer«‘w« b T 104
{liftitefl to. admit of ,snj *V7 clw teroen
by you in regard to iU P*®? o** 0 001 M 1
k discipl* ot a bobbin ftficy, or the victim of at
i ssploded humbug, bui u an hooCst expositoi
of the truth, to perform this email kb ol of loft
for you.
Let me state to you and your readers, it
ths outset, that were these sounds, which wi
hear, merely the effect of an ingenious con
trivance on the pait of a few men or women
—no matter how cunning the hands that
made them, I would not waste one moment
of my time or insult the intelligence of your
readers by any notice of this kind. Again,
weie they only the simple but strange pro
duction of passive u after, acted upon by
some hidden law as yet veiled to the tele
scopic eye of science, we might wonder, as
we always do when any new and unexplained
phenomena attract our attention, and quietly
hand the subject over to the savans of our
time and tell them to find a patent for the
nondescript offspring.
In the absence, howerer, of any such pos
sibility, I deem the subject of too much im
puitance for summary disposal, and of that
nature with which Philosophy has nothing
to do —any further thai it may rationally ex
plain the media which serves as the electric
chain connecting being with being in God’s
universe. In brief a uund of ordinary per
ceptions, lacking not time or patience and
imbued with that sincerity which is ever wil
ling to unlearn error as well as to learn truth
is just as good an investigator of aorae things
as the white-haired savan, whose name has
countless appendages.
It is somewhat difficult, within the limits
of an newspaper article, to give an explicit
and full exposition of this subject. The
reader will undoubtedly, on perusal, find a
multitude of questiona suggested to hia mind
which he would like to have answered; and
which, had I the opportunity, might for the
must part be replied to at once and satisfac
torily. 1 will only attempt therefore to give
my own views and reasons for them.
Firstly, as thousands can testify, there are
sounds produced, various in quality and
volume, while observers are in the presence
Of one or more certain individuals.
Secondly, these sounds, by their peculiar
nature, variations, difference of locality ano
simultaneous production, afford to any one
who will listen to them during the space of
even thirty minutes, when the communica
tion is free, the most conclusive evidence th»t
their origin is not in the volition of any visi
ble human being or beings.
Thirdly, there is intelligence connecteu
with and controlling the sounds, which is
manifested, in a manner simple as it is beau
tiful, by the answers to questions put by ob
servers at will to those unseen agencies.
When a question is asked which requires as
an answer, but a simple affirmative or nega
tive, it is Teplied to by the plain signal easily
understood; but when a question requires
anything more than that, the alphabet is re
sorted to.
I will give a few incidents which have
come under my observation. On one occasion,
as a sort of test of their intelligence, 1 took
fiom my desk three several letters from as
many different correspondents, with the
names of the writets endorsed upon them,
folded them compactly in a wrapper and
placed the package in my side coat-pocket.
When I came in the presence of these agen
cies. and was seated with sevetal strangers
at the tabic, my name tv*s called to converse
with them. 1 asked if the questions 1 had
prepared in my mmd would bo answered;
an affiimative was received. I then took out
the package', laid it on the table—holding it
the w hile—and asked how many letters are
there in this package? Three was the reply.
I then asked if the dfmmunicaioT would tell
the company by spelling the. names of the
writers of Hhueelestem; an affirmative was
signified. i .The alphabet was called and the
name of Margaret Robinson was given as
one of the w riiera. The same process was
repeated, and Elizabeth was spelled by the
invisible agent. The third name was tefused
to be given-t-why, 1 know not, but will state
that it was the name of my sister (Sarah,)
whose spirit, meanwhile, if we may balkye
the sounds, was conversing with me. On
asking “how many letters are there in the
first name of the third writer?” Jive was
the reply. I then opened the package and
showed to-the company the result; the re
plies were correct jn every particular.
A gentleman from Boston asked if the
sounds would tel), by means of the alphabet,
the last words which his mother addressed to
him; an affirmative was the response. The
letters were called, and “good bye my dear”
were the words given as the last’ addressed
-by the mother to her sun. “These wore her
very last words to me—no more, no less!”,
was his exclamation....
I have known a vast number of instances
in which these agencies (be they what they
may) have evinced art enerring perception
tvuly Mtwnishtng; aqd which gave lo the in
dividuals in conversation with them the most
unmistakable evidence of the possession of a
knowledge famlliaT with all the rainnti** of
their lives, and a power to read, at will, the
unspoken thoughts sjirrjrig at the moment in
the secret receses of their minds.
1 I f
Now I know not why anything of this na
ture should for a moment, at this stage,
prompt any person of ordinary understanding
in indulge in levity or. carelessly saeer at
what he has not studied* The subject has
chained the attention of some of the best
minds in our country. They have approach*
ed it with the honest determination to use
the apppliances of their best reason to
fathom the mystery, if it was “pf the parth
earthy” no small number of those who hate
given it their attention would long since have
discovered the deception and Juwe consigned
its authors lo that ighouin which they
would so riekly have deserved. 1 sty, and
say it with soioe emphasis, that it argues- ne
email degree, of. self-conceit in any one who
is wiling, without heifer evidence then hes
yet been or will be produced, to call this a
delusion, and those deluded who claim it to
he at least one of lie moat remwMde apeeiea
id 1 phenomena the world bee eve* witnessed.
ftegaruog the spirituality of, these mani
festations, I wouM -eel .aesige to them that'
:hvapt*l« M tbfre was any room for argu
ment. It is, «l ell others, the. easiest end
ipopt rational way' W> account for them. ll
s»y Uttawith wo, acdtiiti first ace naming,,
i -.'f I,* In j tg]
t l «te# M<h hwthii 4 i,4
i
facts which -shut util completely aay othej
conclusion.
The *»ode of communication has often been
alluded to as repulsive snd totally at vartases
with, that digipty apd refinement which ws
would pleaae to accord to tb disembodied
apirits oft our kind. Now it seems to me iI
any one will reflect, w* l ft et at CObclo
sionn by. joinpir.*, they can readily see that
soch a view of the thing is about as devoid
of calm rationality aa the common estimate ol
manhood by the hue of the akin he wears.
Just step with me from your office across 10
the Telegraph Station, where the unseen
lightnings are heralding to us the swift-wing
ed thoughts fnoffall points of the compass.
Hark! listen to that electric hammer, as is
scores the language on the bit of paper. Do
you hear the rapping! Click, click, click, I».
it odious! No, it is beautiful! “I love to
witness it” —you say. It is a triumph-of
man's glorious intelligence, sud is robed
about with that distinctive grandeur which
marks its author as a be ng but “little lower”
than those whose shining foreheads reflect
the effulgence of the Deity. But how it raps!
Yes, you will say, but th’S rapping is done
by machinery, and therefore beautiful, Go
with me again. But no, you will not; else
I would take you to another station wheje
the wires you here see are useless; where
thought is borne to us from other worlds by
less complicated means than is here used to
bring it but a thousand miles. The embodied
spirit has crossed mountains with his wires,
has forded streams and robbed a forest to
erect thereon his electric bridge, and con
verses with his distant fellow. The disem
bodied human, yet more ingenious, uses the
simple elements ot our comnuou atmosphere,
and rapt without a hammer.
Very truly vours, n
J. E. R.
—i- I
The Webster Trial.
Dr. Webster's address to the jury, at the
conclusion of the argument of the connsei.
Chief-Justice Shaw now, with tears and
other indications of strong emotion, addressed
the prisoner by name, and informed him, il
he had anything which he wished to add to
what had been urged in his behalf by his
counsel, it was his privilege to do so then;
but it was a privilege of which he had the
right to avail himself, or not, according to his
pleasure.
The prisoner then arose, and addressed
the court and audience, rather than the jury,
substantially as follows, iu a well-raised
voice, but m a lapid and netvous maimer:
ADDRESS.
I feel grateful to the honorable court for
this courtesy, lot I should like to give a lu»l
xplanation of the vast net-work of circum
stances which have been arrayed agoinst me,
and have been crushing me for many
months. But it would consume much oftbe
valuable lime of the court, nor do I know
that my strength would be equal to it. Nine
tenths of what has appeared here, I think 1
could explain, if I had a proper opportunity’
—ill could have seen and known what these
people were thinking and doing at the times
they have testified about. In nine cases out
of ten, I could have given a satisfactory ex
planation of the circumstances which have
been so unfortunately snd completely distort
ed against me here. I think 1 had evidence
which, with my explanations, would have
cleared up these suspicious circumt.tances,
and my innocence would have been eulirely
established. But my lips have been sealed.
I was in the bands of counsel, who were
highly recommended to me, and I deferred to
their superior judgment, sud they did not
think fit to act upon my suggestion. I have
placed in their hands the testimony necessary
to explain very many things which have
pressed most against me, but they have judg
ed proper, in some esses, to disregard my
wishes or instructions. If they had done so,
many things would have lieeu cleared up,
which will-now be misunderstood, beesi »e
they have been perverted by the witness's,
through then imperfect knowledge. Tluy
have not thought proper to biing loith It u
testimony, it would have explained much
that the Commonwealth now objects agatpst
me.
But even now I will endeavor to correct
one sutomem that has been urged here,
taken from that letter to piy daughter, m
which 1 requested that my wile should not
open s bundle. That lias been greatly mis
understood; but I can fully explain it. 1 had
read in one of that kind ot p«|>eis that are
distributed in the jail, that 1 had purchased
some oxalic acid, which was supposed to ite
|or the purpose of taking out blood slams; It
occurred to me that it musf mean Some citric
acid, which my wife asked me to procure
lor her, to be used for some domestic pur
poses. 1 did not gel it the day she first re
quested me to, snd she laughed at me when
1 returned home from Boston lor having tor
gotten her request. The next day, Which
was Friday, 1 did get it for her, at Mr. Tha
yer’s, under the Revere House, about twelve
o'clock, and earned it home, and gave it to
her. It was, from wfoat 1 lead in the paper,
that I supposed it might be necessary to have
the package pteserved, and that was the
package 1 wrote about. 1 wanted it kept
for evidence, it had no refeieuce to the notes
which were placed tn the trunk by Mr. Cun
ningham, I understood. n-»
I wish to point out another circumstance
a mistake, though an unintentional one, I
have no doubt, in the testimony of Rev. Mr.
Parkman. But 1 must say he has not done
me justice. He introduced the subject of the
aberration of his brother's mind, and 1 think
he will recollect it, when I recalt the conver
sation to his mind. He will .recollect dial, be
asked me if a common looking laboring man
was with his brother when he caate to the
College, and he also asked me, it he had any
lettuce m his hand, and I answered No to
both these questions. I told him 1 did not
notice any lettuce.
Then a* to the nitrate of copper, or nitric
acid it must be well known to person* ac
quainted with chemistry, that I wanted it fwr
my lectures,, iti which I explained and Of*
hibited the changes in the air produced by the
gases. The blood, too, was used in the
leotuies. By means of gas, it could be
changed trom its dark oolor to the bright
yellow.
It is said that I have been ea’m; but if I
have been so, I have not felt so. In oqe
sense lam calm. My trust is in God and my
innocence. My couaselliave advised mo to
keep oakn. I bad the money to pay Dr.
Paikman. With regard to the money, l ean
■ayttbakl was .ir» the .habit of lay mg- 1 aside
money, from time to tipie, to meet Dr. Psrk
roau’s payment. The money I bad.ltuo*
out of that little trunk,. hut unfortunately no,
uo« s»w me isko.it out that, morning, before
I earns ever t* Boston.•
The reason I Sej(>t toy laboratory locked
latterly was, tv prevent jt Irani being din#-
ranged. Formerly I used have students
m there, to help me in making my prepara
tions tor the iecieree, but they broke m many
things that i ciinetadedt* do it alone. That
is the rvwor. f kept if locked morn than
fonr.arly.
I ai home every night, and Mr v Sfit
dereon'la m;«,t»*en in supposing hi saw me
coming out of the omaihua aloua, one high)
.that VWXv evidence*llt'ihe
hands <tt my couus»»l. shout where Waa at 1
«hfefe» ittne*, wblch tbey have not uaedo>l>
left tit# f’elioge on Friday afternoon, ahum
three o'clock, to come (ip to town. J had
I >-*t W O (O «M>
mat. ti j
«*Tt Hill, or Crigbaip’s, where 1 bed ocea
Anally been before to ff*t bite, 1 vent ir
end got a .-bop; 1 the# went la Ml Kiddef» t
end got into the ernniboe. The trMiil| I
was able to ehow whare I wee, I notified' mj
cooneel. I bed bought a copy of Humboldt
eod etepped into Brigham’* to ge* a
j if* ee I wee going ilong. 1 cellte off 1u i
i hurry, and left the book. I bad it eent for,
end the p*opi« recollected the circumstance;
■nd the book was found just where 1 left it;
end by that meant J was able to fix it that ii
was Wednesday evening, eod prove where 1
waa that evening.
Will ellow me to aay one thing more 1
1 have, ieli more oppressed by whit haa been
testified agaiist me about l those enoeymoui
letter#, than by. enything eUe brought againal
me et this trial; and I will cell P>7 God tn
m itnets, and if it should be the I**l wotjd 1
ever should be allowed to apeak, 1 declare I
never vrlute those letters. Since’they Were
introduced into this case, my counsel has to
•cttived a letter, in which the writer saya be
wrote the one signed “Civta,” that haa been
used here. A notice was put into jhe paper,
calling upon him to cotqe forth, but he haa
not been found. He may be in ihia court
room, and if he is on this spot, and has a
Spark ol humanity io him, 1 call upon him
lo come forward. 1 1
The prisoner now resumed his seat, some
what tremulous from agitation. L
t TBS CBS ROB; m t j i
Chief-Justice Shaw proceeded, at first in
a very low tone, to sum up the cate, and lay
its bearings before the jury. He alluded,to
the importance of tbe case; and went ob to
consider the rules undei which the jury
would consider and decide on the evidence.
The solemnity and magnitude of the case,
was 4ufficte.'illy obvious to the minds of tbe
aibitrants in It. He next -touched on the
nature of the relationship existing between,
the law and its intermediate and final adminis
tration—their separate and at the same time'
corljunctive duties—for The performance «i
which no one was responsible to another or
a third party. The duty of' the jury was,
simply to extract the truth Iron, the mass ot
evidence, and found their verdict upon jt.
The law gave the confidence of security in
doing so, and would take up the case as it
fell thus iegitmately from their hands.
The indictment was next alluded to, and
the qualify and degrees of crime, as included
under tfie general law of homicide, described.
These distinctions were briefly enumerated,
as were also the nature and effect of piemedi
tation or malicious motives pointed out, as
they operated as an aggravation of any act of
homicide. The nature of provocation, suf
ficient or limited, was also explained, and its
bearings on the several charges defined. No
provocation.by words only was allowed as a
justification for a mortal blow. An opponent,
carrying mortal, weapons on his person, and
threatening injury at the same time, furnished
a kind of justification for homicide; but any
thing malo ctninm being proved against an in
dividual, precluded him from the benefits of
llie distil ;tiua made between murder and
manslaughter. If a man used a deadly wea
pon in attacking a man, and pleaded the in
tention not to do him harm by its use, harm
having occurred which issued in death, malice
was implied; but if, m attack and defence,
homicide should ensue—the parties being
mutually engaged in a quarrel—the issue
having proceeded from heat of blood, the
charge would be manslaughter.
In the present case, there was no evidence
of heat of blood, or personal mutual coqflicf
whatever. Connected with it, thfee tilings
weie to be proved:
Ist. That death had occurred to Dr. Park
naan’s bodv;
3d. That hit life waa taken by John W.
Webstcv; and
3d. Did or did not Dr. George Park man
meet his death by suicide, or any accident,
which might naturally have befallen him?
In the eye of the law, there were no dis
tinctions; life having been taken by violence,
tbe law took up its iavesiigstiun, whoerei
might be charged, and no individual was in
vested.with any legal immunity who Was
thus charged, So it was with, every uutior
crime. None were, exempt firoru the power
of the law, the facts being known to its
officers and administrators. The charge
against defendant is, (hat he murdered Dr.
George Parkmati, and otrtumsianttal evil
depce was brought to proxe the fact. No erne
had »eep the manner of, death, yet the law
aid it could h>* proved by cirpumstances. Few
of all criminal acts which destroy the publiq
peace, and subvert its security, would be
puntshed if the law provided otherwise. This
law, like all other*, had its disadvantages as
wpU as ita advantages. Crime.btunr general
ly commit wed in secret, no possibility of proof
would be secured, unless Providence had pro
vided that the great chain of pircumsuncqs
which might follow should be taken to, grove
that crime had been committed. In many,
very many instances, tacts were capable" of
beisg clear and correct conclusions, arid cir
cumstantial evidence ot ibts character was
tnepefpre experimentally approved of. t*-
Supposing that,the teeth found were pro
ved tw be those belonging to Dr. Parkman,
the body, or collective pyrts of it foujtd, al
though they thight not’lie satisfactory identi
fied as the body of the deceased, yet the
height and general appearance, it furnished,
mil being inconsistent with the presumption
that the body wa* that of Dr JEVikwan, were
npt to be thrown out of proof. The piewnce
of the teeth favored thq presumption that the
body might be there. Several analogous in
stances Were enumerated to itlußiraie this,
point.
The general conclusion- draws froth the
cul.auon of precedents was, that circumstan
tial truths wpre as reljabje ,*ct,q*J, observa
tion. Two facts supjorUng one conclusion,
and circumstances concurring, had a St rung
telidency to furnish a clearrebult ln the shape!
of proof.
One thing was to be noted as a circumstan
tial proof, namely, any pijdetyqur to conceal
testimony of facts t in order to screen crime.
If was this order of circtfmdlantial .proof,
which caused the uncle, whose ON was quo
ted by counsel for defense, to be condemned
for the murder of his neiCfej he hid denied in
practice the simple fadi that the girl hyd run
away, -c**'! i».,i'.ntui i J
His honor, next laid down, at number of il
lustrative and .dsgsi. tq enforoe
the proper view of.thtq vajpety
tiajjjroof.,
"Tne'lealous’y which shdfiTd accompany the
cbnsiderktiAh'di' (ti€
furnish an wfifii 1 in the pretest--ease, 1 was erij
lorced at some l*ngtb.> o a
What const* tied, reasonable doubt next
engaged,(the fiUtfliWß ,yf'bs leyrpfd chief
justice. It wks designated tp be,what would
weigh upon lite mind with' folce—engender
k doubt whihli 'c'oufd b« be IhroWn aside—
ahd included every thing without the 1 scope of
naorttf certkiniyi<' Ho then tobkiip the-detoils,
uf the ifltUctm*.nl, and the objectioos offiered
to.ua vaUdiy........ i,o
indict four modes of
killing—fpur substantial charges or ddferiiT
adt’s having corntaittedthe crude dfmtlrder
The itoetu ol 'iltli diffusa rrmnner of charging
waa; to sedbre-proaf that SoiuOoae mode of
killing was substantiated hytitbe,evidence.
.Th*! goveimoeot- Jot «know whaj.
iqedflot
evidence was given; tod tt was necessary Mi
have' such form Of indictment W 'Would en
crimpsss kit lofd rtieariS that'feitt hc adopted
for kilhAgtafiefi tt the use of ehkwsfcirm, by
nmningoser by a sdtsm»esgine, ei the usa
olany new means w is sent, w ,tbat prpfreps
oMghlhflog vyjMjbtyi teach of the desuoyef
SBlfM ft* Me <rj.rae(f l rttailfcciof
Parkman had I<*l his lib i„ Ukp di>ll«gd I ‘’and
Was no decided dfeecvshy extdting tbaeiWs
mode or meant of hid Maath ahouM l)e speci
fied* iTha aaljdsiytsrf the ,fdu«th>couaf«w**
ihejadore, deeidcdfTT4t vyae *kiu to the
,f b|l#» ncmil! (»tll Ml j
v»*v h*» tj o
ta giten in eridenoe, were then *e»pitulated
in detail, as abo the ra*n» taken to dwcewei
him, which ultimately, reeled in the ntidief
ui the romtins.
Th* firet question w re
iheee the realms of Dr. PerkmaH? lb*
•oliiion of tiu. q tt 7 intolted a eompariaor
ol ih* P ,oof 'du bvth of the evidence
The mere matter of bolding an opinion, in
dependent ef any fully-corsobo rating eircutn
stance, waa not .to be balanced in the mm>
scalejsilk one which l\sd numerous coneat
ring circumstances to support it. 1 his wi>
ibe general ouooiuiion we could infet from the
remarks 6f hi* honot.] There must have
been hunfoedsor ibuusands of people who
Umar hare seen Dr. Patkman o® the atrcti
un the day ho waa aaid tu hare bpp»\ eeen, a?
those who testified to have him: the se
quence was uncontrovertible-
[Considerable seusation was'wfanHdsled a*
the dsfehsq thus tottered under the instruction
of the veuerabW judge, and dropped piece
meal to the ground.]> 1
There was a matter tdr ibe consideration
of the jury 1 namely, the identity ef the
of the body found, one with another, *®d the
whole witfi the remains found in the futpsce
especially the ieeih. t The testimony on the
teeth involved a very curious inquiry bo mi
nute have been anatomical observations, jhat
the bones of even,could be iden
tified easily, and auy isolated portion of ihe
human body could be located by the same
minute experience. >ln f the ,*»®d manner*,
observation Jhad enabled the demists-—Dr.
Keep, and his assistant, Dr 7 Noble— -to iden
tity their own work. Dr. Morion’s testimony
did not" affect grektly their opinions, which
1 were again supported by other competent
judges of this branch of an. If these leeih
were those of Dr. George Patkman, then the
head was also that of George Parkman, aa
were also belonging to him the parts uf die
body lound in the premiaes occupied by Df.
Webster in the College.
In respect lb" Littlefield's statements, the
whole of the evidence did n«* depend on his
testimony; but the jury would cuuaider the
mudstnd manner,.in which he gate it, hod*
given such weight as it was worthy to bear.
Not much could be drawn from the con
duct and manner of the defendant dtfing the.
interval between the murder and the airest.
There waa rtoTtrie by which deportment
could be measured; tberefere itUle conclusive
effect ooold flow from it, »o help the other
prouts. l- ,i. T ,j. t
Judge. Shaw spoke for thiee hours.
The jury, then retired, exactly at eight o!
clock and the Court adjourned ui session, to
meet again at eleveb o’ clock.
The jury came in at ten minutes to eleveo
and the court immediately followed.
The clerk now called un John W. Web
ster the prisoner at the bar, to stand up, and
hold up his right hand, which hfe did—at the
same time ahowing much physical and men
tal agitation.
A moment of the most awful suspense en
sued The audience with “bated breath,’’
concantialed their gaze on the foreman who
firmly but solemnly announced the firftal
word, “Guilty!” and a sigh of painful re
lief burst from the heart of every one present.
We return our grateful acknowledgment*
lo Hon. Horace Mann,,Hon. J. P. Hale,
Hon. J. R. Giddinga, Hos. S. Chase, for
valuable-Coegrewtonal docuraenla.r— r. D.
Buffalo, April sth, 1850.
Mr. Editor: The Ladies’ Literary and pro
gressive improvement Society of this Cay
would desire lhrough the medium ot your val?
uable paper, to acknowledge the Receipt ul
Five Dollar*, forwarded by the Rev. M.Jtt.
Clarke as a Donation from Golden Rule, No.
3, ot the Independent order of Daughters of
Temperanoe, of the City ef Pitlahurgh, Pa.
SYDNA E. R. FRANCIS, Pres.'
Mary E. Weir, -Sec.
A tale of Napoleon’s Time
The emperor Napoleon had on one
occasion after aa audience with the
foreign minister*, remained conversing
with Josephine in the deep recess of a
window which overlooked the gardens
of Fontainebleau. They were inter
rupted by the entrance of one of his
officers, the Chevalier de Merville,
who bowing said.
“Sire, a young lady from Lyons, has
been waiting hours for an opportunity
to see you.”
"Why was she not admitted ere
this?" asked Napoleon hastily.
"Four majesty forgets that tho Aus
trian Ambassadors have just depart
ed."
"Ah! I had forgotten! A young
woman! What is her business with
me!"
"Some petition I believe, Sire," an
swered De Merville.
"Well, well, show her into our pres
ence now," said the Emperor, looking
at Josephine with a smile.
The officer retired, hut soon re-ap
peared in the corridor, with a lady
leaning upon his arm, whose face a»
much as could be seen was very beau
tiful. She trembled as she approached
the door.
"Mademoiselle,'’ whispered hei
guide, and pressing her hand, "take
courage but answer promptly whatevei
questions the Emperor proposes. H»
detents hesitation." Then ushering
her ititu the spacious department, ht
bowed and retired.
The trembling girl, seeing Napoleon
on whom her loudest hopes depeuded
forgot herself, and her timidity, sht
thought only of another. Throwing
liernelf at the feet of Napoleon, sht
exclaimed in a voice choked with etno
lion, "Mercy! Sire. I sue for inercj
and pardon." She could articulate m
more.
Josephine stepped from her partia
concealment, and approaching tin
group, contributed more by her swee
and sympathizing words oi'eucourage
ment to restore the courage of tut
young petitioner, than even the Em
peror by the graciousness of his man
uer as he bade her arise. "Your pe
tilion, Mademoiselle," said he.
Hennette Arinand (for that was hei
name) looked imploringly at tlie Em
peror, and exclaimed, "Ah, Sire! J
ask pardon for Louis Deiamarre, win
is condemned to be shot on the tnor
row. Oh, grant him your royal par
don!"
A cloud gathered on the bvow o
Napoleon as he interrupted her will
—“Deserter, Mademoiselle. He ha
twice deserted. No, he must be mad.
an example to the rest of the reifi
meni."
"But the cause of his desertion!'
cried Henrietta, in ngony; "He wa
compelled sorely against his will t<
joiu the army."
"What was the cause of his deser
lion?" interrupted Napoleon.
"Two weeks since," answered Hen
riette, "he received news that an oul
remaining parent, his mother, Sire
was on her death bed, and longed da
and night to behold her son again
Louis knew that relief from his pos
was impossible. His mind was fillet
with one thought, that she might clos<
her eyes forever, ere they rested 01
the son she loved so fondly."
"Did she die?" asked the Empress
with interest.
"N.*, mudatne," replied Henriette
"she at last recovered. But hardh
had Louis received her blessing, beei
folded in her arms, ere he was tori
from her grasp by the officers of jus
tice, and dragged hither. Oh, must i,i
die? Meicy, Sire, i beseech you."
"Mademoiselle," said Napoleon
apparently "this was tbt
second offence, nave the first, yoi
omitted that."
"It was," answered Henriette, hesi
tating and cw|« ,riig, "It was that ht
heard I was to marry Conrad Ferrand,
whom I detest as much as he does,’
added Henriette with naivette.
"Are you his sister, that you feel sn
great au interest in bis fate?" asked
(he Emperor.
"Ah, no, Sire," said Henriette, hei
lovely cheek assuming a still deeper
hue of the rose; "1 ain only his
cousin."
"Ah, only his cousin," repeated
Napoleon, glancing at Josephine with
a half suppressed smile.
"On, Sire, said Hemiette, "recol
lect the anguish of his widowed moth
er, when she reflects lhat the affection
•if her s>n for her is the cause of his
death. What," continued she, "can I
do to save him?”—and the poor girl,
forgetting the presence of royalty,
iurst into tears. The kindhearted
Josephine glanced at the Emperor,with
eyes expressive of pity and sympathy,
she noticed the workings of his face,
and felt at once that it was very un
certain whether Louis Deiamarre was
shot the next morning.
Napo'eon approached the weeping
girl, she hastily looked up and dried
her tears.
"Mademoiselle," said he, "would
vou give your life for his? Would
you die could Louis Deiamarre be re
lored to life, liberty, and his mother?" i
Henriette started back, turned dead
ly pale, looked fixedly at the emperor i
i moment, then turning away, she!
*uried her face in her hands. After
nlence of soma moments, she was
deadly pale, but an air of firm determi
nation rested upon her lace. "1 am
villing," said she in a very low but
calm voice.
Napoleon looked at bar with sur
prise, as if be had not expected so
ready an acquiescence in his proposal.
"I will see you again," aaid he. "In
he meantime accept such apartments
or your accommodation as I shall di
rect." So saying, the Emperor him
self escorted her to the door, and whis
periog in tba ear of Da Merville,
resigned her to his ear*.

B #wri*tte stood alone in a spacious,
magnificent apartment. Hour# bad
»a*e«ti unobserved, ao intensely was
«he absobed in reverie. A small foldre
paper waa tightly grasped in one hand
,0a ‘it waa traced these words, "A de
•rter is condemned by tba laws of thi
ermy to suffer death. If you wish
Louis Dslamarrs rostered to liberty,
the meant are in your power. Ere
morning dawns be may be on hit way
to join hit mother whom be to much
loves.
“Ah,” murmured Henriette, “do I
not love him too?" Pressing her hand
upon her heart as if to hush its tumult*
uous beatings, she paced the apart*
ment. The door opened and the Che*
valier De Merville entered. He
paused ere he articulated “Made
moiselle."
“I am ready," replied thehighmind
ed Henriette. "My decision is made."
De Merville appeared to compre
hend the important of her words. He
looked upon her in reverence as well
at admiration, as she stood with the
high resolve impressed upon her beauti
ful brow, "Follow me, mademoiselle."
said he. They traversed long corriHoia
and uutnerous suites of superb apart
ments, and descending a staircase,
quickly reached an outer court, com*
niuuicating with the guaid house.
Enteri g this, Henriette was ushered
by her guide into a small uutenanied
room, where she was soon left to her
self. She looked around: on a chair
was flung a uniform of the regiment to
wliicti Louis belonged. On a table lay
a plumed cap. Henriette comprehend
ed it all in a moment. Quickly habit
ing herself in the uniform, she stood
belore the small mirror, and gather
ing up her beautiful brown tresses in a
knot, placed ihe cap upon her head.
She almost uttered a cry of joy at the
success of her transformation. A little
below the stature of Louts, th 6 cap ad
ded to her height; while its long black
plumes sweeping over her face, effec
tually concealed it from view. She
knew that she was to be led to the fatal
ground at the morrow’s dawn. The
bullet which would have struck Louis
to the eaith, would pierce her heart,
but she shrunk not hack. Love tri
umphed over the timid woman’s nature.
"Louis’s mother will bless me in her
heart," she whispered. "Louis him
self will never loi-get ine! Ah, often
has he sworn that lie loved tne better
than all things else beside." Drawing
a lock of raven hair from her bosuui,
she pressed it to her lips, then breathed
a prayer to heaven.
Morning dawned. The sound ol
footsteps aroused Henriette. She start
ed up, grasping the band ot hair,
awaiting the summons. The door
openeu, and two soldiers entered; re
peating the name of Louis Deiainarre
they silently led .her forth to die. The
large court yard, ev«n at this early
hour, was tilled with soldiers—the com
rades of Louis—assembled to witness
the punishment of desertion.—Hem i
elte calmly took her place on the spot
assigned to her, her tace bent toward
the ground. No one suspected she
was other than Louis Deiainarre, the
deserter. But he was yet in a distant
part of the guard house, happily igno
rant of the devotedness of Iter he loved
so well. The soldiers whose bullets
were intended to pierce the heait ol
Louis, had taken their proper distances,
and only awaited the word ofcouiiiiaud
from the Emperor, who was slatioued
at a window commanding a view of the
whole scene.
"Oh!" cried Josehine, who stood by
him, but concealed by the window dra
pery from ibe view of those below.—
j "On! Sire, 1 can endure it no longer,
it seems too much like dreadful reali
ty.—Mark the devoted gill! No shrink
ing back. She seems calmly awaiting
the fatal moment."
Stop!” cried the Emperor from the
window. "Louts Deiainarre ia pardon
ed! 1 revoke his sentence."
A loud burst of applause from the
lips of the soldiers followed this an
nouncement. No one olthem but loved
and respected their comrade. The
next moment, ere they could press
around to congratulate the aupposed
Louis, De Merville hud eagerly drawn
the bewildered Herriette tarough the
crowd, back to the door of the cell
from which she had emerged but a few
moment* belore.
"Resume your dress again, Mademo
iselle, tie hurriedly whispered “Lose
no time. The emperor wishes to see
you. 1 will returu soon."
Henriette was like one in a dream;
but a gleam of delicious hope thrilled
her soul; *he felt the dawuiugs ol hap
piness break upon her heart. Soon
again resuming her pretty rustic habili
ments, De Mervi.le reappeared, and
once again she trod the gallery leading
to the audience loom of the Emperor.
Lifting her e) es from the ground, as
the Icily door swung open, she beheld
Louis! An exclamation of joy burst
from the lips of each, as, regardless of I
the presence of others, they rushed j
into each other’s anus.
Napoleon stopped, Delamarre," said
he, "you have just heard from my lips
the tale of this lovely girl’s devotion
and courage. Do you love her a* she
deserves!"
"I could die for her answered
Louis, proudly.
"Well, well," cried the Emperor,
"this severe test of the love of one will
suffice. So dutiful a son, so faithful a
lover, will doubtless make the best of
husbands.—You Lieutenant Louis De
lamarre, are discharged from your
regiment. Return to your native val
ley with Henriette as yuur bride."
A HOUSE STORY.
A jocose Boston auctioneer was
called upon one day by a country deal
er from Vermont, who wished to dis
pose of hia horse. He was one ol
those distinctive characters peculiar to
that section, with a countenance
strongly indicative ot simplicity and
shrewdness.
'I say,' said he, *1 want to tee the
auctioneer, that actions off horses here
on Saturday.*
‘l’m the individual,* eaid the auc
tioneer:—‘what can 1 do for you?*
‘Well, I’ve got a horse 1 want to
sell, provided 1 can get enough foi
him; 1 don’t want n- thing more than
his valua neither. He's a good one,
though just now he's a lettl* thin; bui
I reckou he ought to sell pretty smart
ly.’
will you have him ad*
‘Well I guess 1 don't know about
tbftt* Wh«t du you n? 1
‘One dollar first insertion. fifty tents
for every timaafiar.* 7
‘Thar# tow dollars for thief tiaes;
I reckon you may put him in lha paper
once, stranger, and after that let him
slide/
‘Very good; what color is he?'
'Rather brown than otherwise.'
'ls he sound?'
'Sound? Oh, sound as a dollar;
thotiid'ni like to warrant him though.'
'All right, I'll advertise and sell him
on Saturday. Have y« ur 'crittur' at
the mart by twelve o’clock.'
'I just want to tell, Mr. Auctioneer,
I should like to have the animal limited
at fifteen dollars, but you may e t him
go lor five.'
'Exactly, and you won't take a grea'
deal more than is offered for him, will
you?’
•Well no, I’m not dispositioned to be
bard, any how; I calculate not.’
Saturday came, and one dollar and a
hall was hid for the animal brought b\
the horaa dealer.
‘Goon, gentlemen, I’ve only one
dollar and a half bid for the horse; how
much more shall 1 hear? One dollai
and a half—going, going,—"
‘Sell him, sir, he's dying!’ whispered
the Vermont horse dealer into the eai
of the knight of the hammer.
‘Gone!’ shouted the auctioneer, and
down went the old horse at a dollai
and a half.
After the sale the horse dealer was
the first one up at the desk to settle.
'Well, I reckon it won’t take long
to settle up this little trade of mim
about the horse,” said he.
•N< t long,’ said the clerk; ‘there’*
vaur account of sale; you have ju*t t«
pay us fifty cents more than the hors<
Drought.'
‘Political destruction!' exclaimei
ihe Vermonter, with a humorous affec
tation ot astonishment. Then, with
satisfied manner, he continued, ‘lt
cheap enough! There’s a fifty cetn
piece. Cheap enough! 1 could’nt git
him away at no price, and it wouh
have coat tew dollars and a hall'to bun
him. Jest halt a dollar saved. Goo<
morning, Mr. Auctioneer. Cheaj
enough!’
From (be National lutel ijjencer.
AN ARGUMENT AGAINST EARLY
MARRIAGES.
Messrs Editors: In your paper ol
August lOih 1 noticed a cnmtiimunica
tion Irom tlie Richmond Republican
signed *W. W. Y.,’m which the writei
advocales early marriage*. V\ ith youi
permission 1 will present ‘the other sidi
*>f the picture.’ Says W. W. Y..
‘all know, or should know the opiniui
of the wise'and good Franklin upon
this subject, who was a warm advocatt
in its favor.’ Perhaps Franklin wa>-
philosophically right in his opinion, but
facts go to prove that he was practical
ly wrong. For instance, gentlemen
•all know, or should know,’ that child
ren of very young parents are general
ly deficient in strength of body am
mind, and commonly die young. ‘AI
know, or should know,’ that Frunkhi
was the fifteenth child of his iathei
and tne eighth of his mother; and mot*
still he was the youngest child for fiy.
successive gt Derations on his mother’r
side, from whom, more than his fathei
he inheiiti d his eminent tulents.
Pitt, Fox, Burke, were each tin
youngest child of their respective fami
lies. Daniel Webster is the youngest
by a second marriage, so also wa»
Lord Bacon, whose father was fill),
Bud his mother thirty-two years of age
at his birth. Judge Story’s mothei
was forty-four at his biith; Benjamin
West was the tenth child of his par
ents; and Dr. Doddridge was the twen
tieth child by one father and mother.
It is a proverb that ‘the youngest child
is the smartest.’ And why ?—evident
ly because the parents are mature in
mind and in body, aud const quently
transmit a higher order of mentality tc
their offspring. Does the intelligent
farmer expect a h' altby and luxutiani
crop when he aeeds with dwaifisi.
green corn or unripe potatoes? Anc
why not biing in requisition as much
science aud common sense to propa
gate the human form divine,’ as ‘pota
toes *»d cabbage?’ Grant that early
marriages would obviate ‘much of th»
vice and wickedness which is now al
most unaveidable,’ is not the remeoy
worse than the disease if it bo the
means of bringing into existence a
race of puny ill-formed children, a
majority of whom die before they ar
rive at maturity? But the evil does
not end h-re. Those who do lit*
transmit their mushroom const it utiom
to iheir offspring, and thus most effec
tually are the ‘iniquities of the fathere
visited upon the children.’
A GENTLEMAN, WllO WAI NOT
ASHAMED OF BEING POOH.
There are volumes of sound pract
ic'd philosophy in this seemingly slight
sketch couied from one of Thackeray’s
whimsical articles in Punch:
"Now, Goldsworthy, is a gentleman
and a man of genius, who has courage
arid simplicity enough to he poor—not
like some fellows whom one meets,
and who make a fanfaronade of povei
ty, and draping themselves in theii
rags, seem to cry ‘See how virtuous 1
ain,—how honest Diogenes is!" but h«
is a very poor man, whose education
and talents are of the best, and who
in so far claims to rank with the ver)
best people in the world, in his place
in Parliament, when he takes off hip
hat (which is both old and well brush*
sd,; the Speaker’s eye is pretty sure
to meet his, and the house listens to
nim with the respect which is due to so
much honesty and talent. He is the
equal of any man, however lofty or
wealthy.
Hia social position is rather improved
by hia poverty, and the world, which
is a manly and generous world in its
impulses, however it may be in its
practice, contemplates with a sineeie
regard and admiration Mr. Godswor*
ihy’s manner of hearing his lack of for
tune. He is going to dine for a shil
ling; be will have two mutton chops,
(and a mutton chop ia a thing unknown
m the palacee ot epicures, where you
nay get cutlets dressed with all sorts
>f French sauces, but not the admire*
de mutton chop,) and with a due el*
owance of the Club bread end beer,
ie will make perfectly wholesome
md sufficient and excellent meal; and
<o down to the house end fire into
Ministers into this very night.