From the New Vork Evening Post.
SLAVERY OR TREASON.
have often had occasion to re
mind our tender-footed democratic
Brethren at the North, who were as
much opposed as any one” to the ex
tension of slavery, but who were unwil
ling to wound the sensibilities of their
Southern allies, by making opposition
♦hereto a party test, that they had nev
er experienced the same forbearance
irom the South We have brought to
their notice from time to time, the dec
larations made by the legislatures of
five or six Southern States, that under
"do political necessity whatever” would
they support any candidate Jot* any pub
iic office, who nesitated about the pro
priety of extending slavery to the new’
territories; ond more recently we have
referred to the adoption and ratification
of the famous Address ot the Southern
Members of Congress, 5 by nearly ev
ery county convention in every south
ern State, whereby they severally re
solved to resist with violence any" at
tempt to euforce the docilities ul the
Jeffersonian ordinance. Our record
would not be complete, i! ive were to
overlook the proceedings o! a Slate
Convention lately held at Jackson,
Mississippi, the perusal ot which, must
prove highly gratifying to the anti-test
section of the New York Democracy.
At the conclusion of an address of
some length, in winch the divine origin
and purposes are vouched for, after the
tashion of the chivalry school, the fol
lowing resolutions were adopted, among
others, with entire unanimity
Resolved, That Congress has no
power to pass any law abolishing slave
ly in the District of Columbia, or to
prohibit the slave-trade between the
several States, or to prohibit the intro
duction of slavery into the territories of
the United States, and that the passage
by Congress of any such law, would
not only be a dangrous violation of the
Constitution, but w ould afford evidence
of a fixed and deliberate design on the
part of that body, to inti rlure with the
institution of slavery m the States.
Thai we would regard the passage
oy Congress of the “Wilmut Proviso’ 1
which would in effect, deprive the citi
zens of the slaveholding States of an
eijual participation in the territories ac
quired equally by their blood and treas
ure,) as an nnjust and insulting dis
crimination to which these States can
not, without political degradation, submit
and to which this Convention, repre
senting the feelings and opinions ol the
people of Mississippi, solemnly deolan
buy anil not subnut.
That the passage of the Wilmot Pro
viso, or of,any law abolishing slavery
in the District of Columbia, by the
Congres of the United States, would o;
itself, be such a breach ol the Federa
compact as, in that event, will make ti
the auty, us it is the right of the slave
holding States, to take care o) their owt
'ufety, and to treat the non-slate ho I ding
States as enemies to the slaveholding
States and their do i ms tic institutions.
That the Legislature is hereby re
quested to pass such laws as may, if
their opinion, be best calculated to en
courage the emigration ot citizens o
the slaveholding States, with slaves, t(
the new territories of the United States
That, in view of the frequent and in
creasing evidence of the determinatior
of the people of the
States to disregard the guaranties of tin
Constitution, and to agitate the subjec
of slavery, both in and out of Congress
avowedly for the purpose of effecting
*U abolition tfi the States; and also 11
new of the facts set forth m the lan
Address of the Southern Members o
Congress this Convention proclaim
the deliberate conviction that the tim*
lih< arrived when the southern stale
should take counsel together for thet
evnaon safety; and that a Conventioi
THE NORTH STAR.
'of the slaveholding States should be
held at Nashville, Tennessee, on the
hrst Monday in June next, to devise and
1 adopt some mode of resistance to these
aggressions; and that this Convention
j do appoint twelve delegates and twelve
1 alternates, being double the number of
our Senators and Representatives in
Congress—to attend such Convention,
and that the other eleveholding States
be invited to appoint delegates agrees*
j bly to the same ratio of representation.
That we recommend to the Legisla
ture of this State, that at its neat ses
sion, a law be enacted making it the
duty of the Governor of the State, by
proclamation, to call a general Conven
tion of the State, and to issue writs of
I election based apon the ratio of repre
j sentation in the State Legislature, upon
the passage by Congress of the “Wil
mot Proviso,” or any law abolishing
slavery in the District of Columbia, or
prohibiting the slave-trade between the
States, to take into consideration the
act of aggression, and the mode and
measure of redress,”
It is a little singular that the valiant
Pistols of the South, who get together
and bluster behind such newspaper ar
i tiliery as the above, never discover the
absurdity of complaining of the North
for violating the constitution, when they
never open their own mouths at a pub
lic meeting, without speaking enough
treason to hang them. It has never
been proposed by any political party at
the North to attempt to interfere with
slavery or any other institution, except
in a constitutional mode, to be deter
mined upon by the representatives of
•t the people in Congress assembled.—
j The North expects in all things to abide
by the will of the people as expressed
through constitutional channels, uor has
1 it ever been proposed among us, as far
as we know; to modify the laws or in
stitutions of the country by any other
process.
j Nearly every one of the slave Stales,
on the other hand, have threatened so
frequently to abandon th,e Unioo, and
i set up as independent nations, during
{the past half century, that it is now ta
ken as a matter of course, whenever
the southern representatives find them
i selves voting in a minority, that the
Union is to be dissolved straightway.
Of course, nothing of the sort has
ever occurred, or ever will occur, and
if and the impotence, inconsistency and
■j folly of those who make such threats,
are becoming more conspicuous every
i tune they are repeated. And yet there
are those at the North who think we
t; ought not to agitate aqy question about
which the south differs with us, because
iHrritates the feelings of southern wo
ple and provokes sectional confWwmr
sies. Then we may as well withdraw
our northern representatives from Con
gress. The southern people are not
educated to abide by the will of the ma
jority They cannot reconcile them
selves to the supremacy of any law by
which they imagine their own interests
are not to be promoted. And it is idle
to suppose that the rights of the North
j can be preserved, if northern statesmen
are td be silent, whenever southern
politicians fhreaten disunion Here
within the current month, we have the
State of Mississippi resolving in a State
convention, not to submit to the Con
stitution of the United States a single
moment, after a majority of the mem
bers of Congress shall have prohibited
the introduction of slaves into Califor
nia, and recommending the Governor
to be required, upon the occurrence of
such an event, to order an election of
an independent legislature for the State
jof Mississippi. What pretence or mo
tive has Mississippi, for promulgating
treason like this? Why, according to
the address of the delegates, to abolish
slavery from the territories, is to pre
r vent an advance in the price of slave
I property in the States. The planter,
I with a hundred slaves, may not be able
to sell them for ten percent, more than
they will bring at present, unless the
California market is opened to them.—
This may be a very good reason to slave
owners for resisting, by all constitution*
al means, the exclusion of slavery from
California, but it is a contemptible pre
text for practising treason. Had Mas
sachusetts or Pennsylvania threatened
1 to leave the Union, and to set up inde
pendent governments while the tarif
bill of 1646 was pending, they coulc
have justified themselves upon as higl
ground as Mississippi can justify the
adoption of the resolutions we quoted
Indeed the pecuniary loss sustained b;
them from the exchange of the tariff o
]64‘2 for that of 1846 was undoubted!;
much greater than will be sustained b;
any two southern States, from the ex
clusion of slavery from the territories
It never occurred, however, to the citi
zens of either of those States toque*
lion the supremacy of the law, or t<
relax in their devotion to the Union, foi
they are educated to believe that wist
1 governments are instituted fortbe great
est good of the greatest number, ant
that it is the first duty of a minority t<
learn to obey.
When the southern States learn thest
1 important truths we shall all get oi
much more pleasantly together
tr at hat N. H Independent Dctnoau
MORE TREASON!
It does seem as though our ‘South
«rn bretbern’ were doomed to see m
end to the plots and conspiraciei
against their Godmrdamed institution
No sooner is one plot discovered ao<
punished, than out hatches another
more fearful than the other How Irui
Mt must be that ‘the Lord loveth sln
r very, seeing ‘He chasteneth its apos
i lies unceasingly* 'll apP*«™ th
t only South Carolina, but Tennesaet
r also has fallen into the scourge of ab
olition treachery. A eettain
i j dust clergyman, Rev. J W. Markham
RIGHT IS OF NO SKX—TRI'TH IS OF NO i'OLOH— GOD 13 THE FATHER OF 63 ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1849.
‘not having the fear of the Slavehol
der’s God before his eyes,’ dared say
j io the hearing of two or three ‘South
J em Christians, near Batesville* Ten
nessee, that the slavery of olden time
j was a different kind of slmetry to tha
amongst as/’ This, coming to the ear
of one of hts Methodist clerical breth
ren, Ret A. Hunter that ‘faithful ahep
1 herd,’ thinking the ‘Church of Chris
I in danger from such damnable here
sies,’ feels bound to come out and de
nounce his brother as an ‘abolitionist
and 'stirrer up of sedition/ This h<
does in the Nashville Christian Advo
cate’ To which, it seems, the accuse*
Mr Markham responds, by denyinj
that he is aa ‘abolitionist.* Tho se
quel, together with she ‘proofstrong a
holy writ,’ will be seen in the commu
nication of Rev. John Cowle, and th<
certificates of Mrs. Luciana Totty an*
others. Who after reading these, wil
hesitate to cry out, ‘Great is the hoi;
institution of slavery, and glorious i
the Christianity that sustains it."*
REPORT
Of the Committee on tfie boundary of the jni
posed State of California, in Convention
Sept. 18, 1849.
Mr. President: The Committee t
whom was referred the subject of th
boundary of the State of California i
accordance with a resolution of thi
House requiring the appointment of
Committee of Five to report what i
tbeir opinion should constitute th
boundary of the State of California
have had the same under consideratio
and beg leave to report the following
Your Committee are of the opinio
that the present boundary of Californi
comprehends a tract of country entire
ly too extensive for one State, and tha
there are various other forcible reason
why that .boundary should not be adop
ted by this Convention. The area i
the country included with the presen
boundary is estimated to be 448,69
square miles, which is nearly equal t
to that of all the non-slaveholdin
States of the Union, and which, deduct
in# the area of lowa, is greater tha
half of all the residue of the non-slave
holding States.
Your Committee are of the opinio
that a country like this, extending alon
the coast nearly 1,000, miles and mor
than 1,200 into the interior, cannot b
conveniently or faiily represented in
State Legislature here, especially as
greater part of the interior is eutirel
cut off’from the country on the coas
by the Sierra Nevada, a continuou
chain of lofty mountains, which is cot
ered with snow, and is wholly impasss
ble pearly nine months in tbs. year.
Yolir’ComrhTftee are also of the opir
ion that the country included within th
boundary of this territory as now cs
tablished, must ultimately be divide
and subdivided into several differer
States, which divisions and subdivk
ions (should the present boundary b
adopted) would be very likely to d
vest the State of California of a value
ble portion of her sea coast. You
Committee are therefore of the opin
ion that a boundary should now be fb
ed upon which will entirely preclude th
possibility of such a result in future.-
Another important reason, which ha
aided very much in producing the cor
elusion to which your Committee hav
arrived, is predicated upon the fac
that there is already a vast settlemei
in a remote portion of this territory
the population of which is variously e
timated to be from 15,000 to 30,0(
human souls who are not represente
in this Convention, and who, perbap
do not desire to be represented here.
The religious peculiarities of the*
people and the very fact of their ha*
ing selected that remote and isolate
region as a permanent home, woul
seem to warrant the conclusion thi
they desire no direct political connet
with us, and it is possible and high!
probable in the opinion of your Con
mittee, that measures have been, c
are now being taken, by these peopl
for the establishment of a Territorie
Government for themselves.
For the above and forgeoing reason
your Committee are of the opinion the
the following should constitute th
boundary of the state of California
vii:
Commencing at the northeast corne
!of the State at the intersection of tb*
parallell cf latitude 42 degrees norti
I with the parallel of longitude 116 west
thence south upon and along that par
allel ot longitude to the boundary lin<
between the United States and Mexi
co, established by the treaty of peace
ratified by the said Governments a
Queretara, on the 30th day of May
1848; thence west, upon and along th<
said boundary line to the Pacific ocean:
thence in a northerly direction, follow
ing the course of tbe Pacific coast tc
the said parallel of 42 degrees nortli
latitude, extending one marine league
I into the sea from the southern to the
northern boundary, and including all
the lavs, harbors and islands adjacent
i to the said coast, and thence east from
•the said coast at latitude 42 degrees
north, uponj aud along that parallel ol
latitude to tbo place of beginning. AU
ot* which is respectfully submitted.
VI, U A Phnii*mnn
WASHINGTON ON SLAVERY.
Charles Snmner, in a letter to tti
Boston Atlas, presents the fotJowin
1 views and sentiments of W asbiogtc
ion Slavery aod Emancipation
-1 He has nevertheless i roust I say a
croud of slaves; but they are trea
e( j with the greatest humanity; wsli le
1 well clothed, and kept to moderate It
bor, they bless God without ceasm
for bn ing given them so goodg roaste
j it is a task M<*ky
ited, ao pure, aad so disinterested, i
si /if v r/'« i*>
begin rerolution in Virginia, to pv
pare the way for the emancipation
the negroes Tbit great man dads
ed to me that be rejoiced at wfcat w
doing in other States on this subject;*
that be sincerely desired tbe extinctu
of it in his own country; hot be d
not dissemble that it was dangerous
strike too vigorously at a prejudii
which had begun to diminish; that tin
patience and information would'sure
vanquish it. Almost all the Virgi
ians, he added, believe that tbe blad
cannot toon become general. This
the reason why they wish not to form
society which may give dangerous idea
to their aiipee. -There is auqther ol
stacle; the great plantations of whic
the State is composed, render it necei
sary for men to live so dispersed, thi
frequent meetings of a society wou!
be difficult.
I replied that the Virginians were i
error, that evidently, sooner or )at<
the negroes would obtain their libert
everywhere. It is then for tbe intei
est of your countrymen to prepare th
way to such a revolution, by endeavoi
ing to reconcile the restitution of th
rights of the blacks with the intere:
of the whites. The means necessai
to be taken to this effect can only b
the work of a Society and it is worth
the savior of America to put himself i
their head, and to open tbe door of lii
erty to three hundred thousand unha;
py beings of hia own State. He toi
me that he desired the formation of
society and that he would second it bi
that he did not think the moment favoi
j able.*’ [Conversations of Washing
ton, in the Travels of Brissot de Wai
ville, in the U. S. in 1788, translate
and published in 1792.]
“I can only say that there is not
man living who wishes more sincere!
than I do to see a plan adopted for th
abolition of it [Slavery;] but there i
j only one proper and effectual mod* b
which it can be accomplished, and tin
by legislative authority; and this c
fur as my suffrage trill go shall ntvtrl
wanting.” [Letter of Washington t
i Robert Morris, April 12, 1786.]
.1 The benevolence of your heart
my dear Marquis is so conspicuous up
on all occasions, that 1 never wonde
at any fresh proofs of it; but your lat
purchase of an estate in the Colony
Cayenne, with the view of emancipa
ting the Slaves on it, is a generous an
noble proof of your humanity. Woul
to God a like spirit might diffuse itse
generally into the minds of the peopl
of this country. But 1 despair of see
ing it. Some petitions were presente
to the Assembly, at its last session, fa
the abolition of slavery, but
scarcely obtain tt redwing To set th
slaves afloat at once would, I really be
lieve, be productive of much inconve
nience and mischief; but by degrees 1
certainly might and assuredly ought to b
effected and that too by legislative as
tkoriiy.” [Letter to Lafayette, Ma
10, 1786.]
I never mean unless some particu
lar circumstance should compel me t
it, to possess another slave by put
chase, tt being among my first wishes t
see some plan adopted by which slaver
in this country may be abolished by law.
I [Letter to John F. Mercer, Sept
1786.]
From what I have said, you pet
ceive, that the present prices of lan
i in Pennsylvania are higher than the
are in Maryland and Virginia, althoug
they are not of a superior quality

[among other reasons] because ther
are laws here for the gradual abolitio
oj slavery, which neither of the tw
States above mentioned have at pres
ent, but which nothing is more certai
I that they must have aiid at a period nt
remote [Letter to Sir John Sinclaii
(Dec. 11, 1786.]
Upon the decease of my wife, it i
my desire that all the slaves whom
hold in my own right shall receive thei
freedom. To emancipate them durin
her life, would, though earnestly wisl
ed by me, be attended by each insupen
ble difficulties, on account of their ii
termixture by marriage with the doa
er negroes, as to excite the most pail
ful sensations, it not disagreeable coi
sequences to the latter, while both d<
scriptions are in the occupancy of tt
i same proprietor, if not being in in
i power, under the tenure by which tt
dower negroes are held to manum
them. Aid I d
I moreover, most pointedly end most so
tmnly enjoin ii on my executors herea
ter named or ike survivors cf them, to s
that this clause rapectmg slaves, a*
t every part thereof be religiously fulfill*
at the epoch at which it is directed to ta
J place, without evasion, neglect or del*
after tbe crops which may then be
the ground are harvested, particular
i as respects the aged and infirm, ee
i ing that a regular and permanent (lii
i be established for their support, as loi
i as they are subjects requiring it, n
I trusting to the uncertain provisionomm
by individuals.” [Washington's Wi
i dated July fck» 1790—[1909.]
M To the above we take the liberty
f; add the following from a letter to L
f fayette, dated April stb, 1783*
“The scheme, my dear Marqui
which you propose as a precedent
encourage the emancipation of tl
black people in this country ffroro th
state of bondage in which they are hel
Mis a striking evidence of tha benev
f ience of year heart. 1 shall be bap;
1 to join von M rt laudable a work, b
will defer *1
buisueaa tillf have the pleasure of pa
i DB 7 V
THE STATE OF DBSEHET.
A letter from the valley of the gre
Salt Lake, the enthrsi pomt a# tl
Mormon elate of Deeevet, gives eoi
i- idea of the resources and progress
»f that strange people in their new abo<
r- The cay is situated in a beautil
m vaUey, eighteen Bailee in width. T
houses, principally built of sue dri
n brick, are email, moat of them ban
d only one room. The town is laid c
o in square* of onl/ tea acres. The
0 squares are laid off in one and a qai
ter ac?e lots, making 8 lota in o
v square. These lots coat the surreyii
h and recording, which is $1,25. Ti
streets are very wide—the city m abo
three miles square.
a 1 have been over the valley for 12
s 13 milef —a more delightful place,
never s|w k and a more productive sc
b I suppose cannot be found for whe«
They have a large field belonging i
t the town—of two thousand acres, whic
j is all one field—in consequence of ti
scarcity of timber, each man puttin
3 up so many rods entitles him to so mac
r acres in the field. They water the
y grain by means of springs which gut
out of the mountain side almost will
e out number, the heads of the sprinj
being so high they can conduct the
e to any part of the valley.
t I saw in walks, wheat that the se
f tiers say will yield 50 bushels to tl
2 acre. I believe if any wheat will
f it this will. It is about as high as
t man’s head, and as thick as it can stem
In this field there are 5000 acres
wheat, and 1000 of corn, the balan<
1 is not cultivated. I saw places whei
a man could cradle through four mih
t of new wheat as high as his head, witi
out turning to the right or left. The
have more wheat than they will cut, f<
the farmers cannot cut it. There ai
1 a lot of men about the camps wfc
would rathsr skin and traffic aroum
i than work for five dollars per day.-
r They are now in the midst of the who
i harvest. I was offered five dollars (i
s gold dust) per day to cradle. Thei
r are warm springs here, which ai
i healthy to bathe in. The populatic
of this valley is six thousand.
A DUMB MINISTRY—A SLAVESEI
LING PARSON.
Correspondence of the True Democrat.
Washington. Oct. 26, 1849.
Mb. Democrat —l listened a wee
*i ago last Sabbath to a sermon preache
by one of the Presbyterian clergyme
of this city, upon the text—“ Pure an
undejiled religion before God and tl
Father is this, to visit the fatherless, an
the widow in their afflictionSfc. Th
minister drew a contrast ofourbtg
condition with that of heathen coui
tries. We enjoy the pure religion sp<
ken of m thAAttti could **t under o»
own Vine ana njgtree and read God
Holy Word, with none to molest
make afraid, while they were deprive
of the Bible, and thousands upon thou
sands of them were prohibited froi
hearing its sacred truths, and kne'
nothing of the social enjoyments of lift
Oh! the poor heathen, thought I! ho'
wretched! how degraded! My symps
thies were just beginning to flow ou
toward them, .when 1 cast my ey
across the Potomac, and thought ofth
poor heathen there, Bnd from thenc
to the slave pens a few squares distac
where men, women and children wer
kept for the slave-inarket, and deprive
of God’s word, and he who presume
to (each them to read the Bible or an
other book, is subjected to the penal
ties of the law as a criminal. Am
this in our free country, under the ver
windows of those churches, where me
set themselves up as God’s ambassi
dors, and dare not even pray for tb
heathen here, who sigh in therr captiv
ity, and shake their maAtcles unde
their very eyes, is rooit
while this poor timid specimen of ht
inanity was telling his hetrers abot
the poor heathen, a wagon load of mei
and women were driven down Pent
sylvania Avenue, manacled togetlt^
and taken to a slave pen near the Caj
itol, there to remain until an opportt
nity is offered to ship them for that hi
des of slaves—the cotton fields of th
South. These things are of frequei
occurrence here, ar* well known to tl)
watchmen on the walla of Zion, as
yet they dare not utter a word again
such abominations. The slaves i
throngs, might shake their chains i
every church door in the city, evei
t Sabbath, and the ministers, poor, wea
t coward*, would merely desire, perba|
that such exciting subjects might be n
moved for away from them so that the
may cot be aiaturbed in their dev<
e tIODS.
I A Baptiet minister who preach*
l here every Sabbath, purchased a sis'
e woman a short time since, for tbn
hundred dollars, with an express ui
demanding that she would be sold a
f of the District. The woman beii
somewhat fractious—as be says—wi
j sold by this hoary headed divine, f<
five hundred dollars to the slave di
j ver. She was taken to the slave pt
t is now in the Southern market there
spend the remainder of her days, fi
from home, her fondly and friends, si
3 from thence she wdl go to the jt»d|
r meat, to appear as a swiff witoe
against this divine who arises from tl
table of the Lord to speculate in tl
o souls and bodies of men, women ai
t children. What a commentary up*
t Christianity! and whet a dark stain u
on the ministry of the country who fe
to cry out against such abomination!
r The church and ministry, as a genet
l thing, are for behind the world in Its r
e buke of sack damnable wholesale an
The ministry if sustained by the pop
lar voice dare ores smelly speak oa
but if not, they are ns dumb as B
foam’s ass. Such wan oat Paul, m
such whs not his Master. Mar.
1 rf,.
A minuter
of ear holy religion, evincing s love 1
e- foe neighbor, by making mercbandi
b) of him riskt here at the capital of tl
ie word-renowned republic Infideli
•d scoff* at such,a religion, and the de
ig would blush W own its ministers,
it minister of Christ! You might wi
is equal propriety talk of a sie-harden
r- saint, or a religious devil, as to ei
ie that man a Got set minister who roak
g merchandise of God’s image in tl
is Diatrict.
it Isthere nothing left foe Free Soil«
ter the settlement of the Califora
ir question?—Think ofit ye narrow min
ed Hunkers who taunt us, and cry o
j one ideaism Till.thai one idea haci
I ed up by human ns well as Almigh
0 power, finda a lodgment in the heat
of the ministry, in the church, the n
e tion, and sweeps a way all the old refiij
of lies of the old corrupt parties, tl
mission of Free Soil is uot accor
r plished
l More anon. E. L. S.
ELIHU BURR IT.
;s
in Rev. Warren Burton, at the Wt
conje Home Meeting, thus referred
t- the Apostle of Peace:
ie About 12 years ago, there came fro
to a little obscure town of Ct., on fo
a travelling 120 miles to Boston, a youi
1. man about 26 years of age H
of while laboring at the anvil many hou
:e of the day, and as thousands and te
•e of thousands and millions of otiier in
>s chanics can do, aad I hope will d
i. spent the leisure hours of the niornir
y and evening in study.
>r He found that he had learned out
e little Connecticut, and he sought whe
o he could find more books, and bool
that would open to him those lofty ai
hidden treasures of literature,- whi<
it his heart and head coveted; —and 1
n sought the nearest point where he su|
e posed a vessel might be found bound
e the Eastern Continent, that and ther
n amid those old cities, and laid up am
those mighty libraries—that there 1
might find the books his own connti
could not supply. On reaching Bo
ton, he found, to his disappointmen
no ship going out. He knew nobod;
He was in the largest human wi
derness into which he had ever wande
k ed. There, depressed in heart, ac
d equally depressed in pocket, he kne
n not what to do—which way to turn
d whom to ask. Passing through Cori
e hill, and accidentally stepping into son
dof the antiquarian book-stores—l thin
e into Barnum’s, his eye fell on the ca
h alogue of the antiquarian Library
i- this city. Here, he said is what
want. And towards Worcester he turi
v ed hnvteps Sq foot. Hb kecsnesA
ried. He became faith: He b6cari
>r despondent. And iff tiffs state abt
d with a wagon came along, and makin
inquiry whither he was going, four
n he was bound for Worcester. Thebe
v consented to let him ride, the youn
man offering his old silver watch i
p ‘!r e came to Worcester. Hfe kne
t nobody. Nobody knew him. Ever;
e thing was strange. He had not th
o key to put into tha‘. Library door an
e open its treasures. All he could d
1 was to go, with his humble attire, as
e have been told, to a blacksmith’s sho|
d and putting hia foot upon the anvil an
s his hand upon the bellows, asked th
Y foreman whether he would like to hit
someone very cheap? [Great sens*
I tion.] He did not like to trust to th
Y chance of being refused without th
0 proviso—he would work very chea|
[One of Mr. Burrit’s old employei
e was Vice-President of this meeting.]
Tne roaster at first employed for ver
t how wages. And there he labored, an
labored on for months. And there h
/found access to the treasures his bea;
coveted. And you know the rest, Ii
3) dies and gentlemen. (Enthusiast!
cheering.)
r And now after having entered on th
great enterprise of peace—havin
scattered his Olive Leaves as m
i- has intimated broad-cast ov<
e one continent, and with a strong arn
it flung them three thousand miles to ai
other, so that tney alighted there—a
<1 ter having crossed the ocean ao
d marched them to one common ceuti
o' as it were, under the guidance of the
distinguished men—after having a<
y j complished what others did not area
kjof, he now comes back to you, bori
in the hollow of the band of Providen*
and he is in oor midst, fCheers
7 What a change! What a contrast!!

MR. WE BOTE It ON POPULAR GO'
ERNMENT.
ie It is a common sentiment, distribute
i* by those who would revolutionize Ei
•t rope, that to be free you have only
g mu it. That 1s a fallacy. There mu
ts be prudence and a balancing of depai
>r meets, and there mutt be persons wl
i- «i)| teach the science of goveromen
n and there are but few, except tn tk
to country, who can teach that sciene
if And we have arrived at this ability I
id an experience of a hundred years.•
And how has it come? Why, we a
•s an off-shoot of the British constitotio
ie We came here and established (X
ie government by a great popular print
id pit, and that is by Representativepovt
>0 ud oar people have been accustom
p- to this for two hsedred%ears.
ir To abide by the voice of tbe Re pi
jseeouvea fairly chosen—by tbe edit
ml ef thcee who make tbe legislative eo*
A meM*. hw our policy. And fn
e. tbe first settlement of the colonv at P
u- mouth through all oar sufr—
feiocted the power of theJPs
.»ment That was So hn Adetp 1 do
b triner And this h tbe rcaso* why tl
re Parliament was hot alluded io in tl
of Decfonfbo ef Independence. Tl
JOfflf DICL Poausata.
WHOLE NO. 102.
for colonies acknowledged the power of iJ
iw crown, but never acknowledging tl
bin authority of the Parliament, the/ di
dained to give any reason for thrown
vU off the power of Parliament.
A When the revolution severed us fra
ith the mother country, then we bed nod
ed mg to do but to go on with Oar election
all supplying tbe Governors not appoint!
e* by the crown, by our own election, si
ils to go on as at &nt; and that it m
which enabled the colonies of Conn*
if. ticot and Rhode Island, down to a vet
tia late period, to continue their anoiei
d- constitutions.
ut But where else could this be Coul
hr >Ou go to the. colonies of South Ajner
ty ca to find any thing like a represent!
u» tire government'?
a- If you look any where beaidas
je France on the continent of Europe, ca
fie you find anything that bears the aspei
n- of a representative government 3 Ther
is nothing.
It is very difficult to establish a fre<
conservative government for the equi
advancement of all the interest of 90c
ety. What has Germany done—lean
ed Germany, fuller of ancient lore tha
10 all the world beside? What has Ital
done? wlist have they done who live 0
m the spot where Cicero and Justinia
ut lived? They have not the power 1
’S self-government which a common town
meeting possess. (Applause.)
ra Now, I say, that those persons wh
13 have gone from our town meetings t
e dig gold in California are more fit t
make a republican government tha
•8 any body of men in Germany, becaus
they have learned this one great lessor
ol that there is no security without law
re and that under the circumstances i
which they are placed, where there i
*d no military authority to cut their throati
and there is no will but the will of th
ie majority—that therefore if they remai
3 they must submit to that will.
10 It is the prevalence of this genera
3 sentiment of obedience to law—tha
'd they must have representatives, am
,e that if they be fairly choben, their edic
y will stand for law. And where the
have our habits, you will tind that the
l j will establish government upon th
1 foundation of a free basis, and nothinj
H else will.
r Now; I think, gentlemen, that whili
d I we prescribe no forms—while we die
w tate to nobody, our mission is to shot
,r j that a constitutional representative gov
ernment, founded on the freest posaibl
10 principles, can do—can do, for the ad
k vancement of general morals, and fo
l the general advancement of prosperity
as much as any other government can
I Gentlemen, two tbioge are to b
guarded. One great truth is, that mm
Hwr 1 Wgo «r*»«*pai>!e
19 self-gqvernment—that the judgment«
7 equal rights is a practicable thing, an
8 that freedom is not a dangerous thin,
d for a body politic. And the other ji
y that freedom from restraint, it not Free
S dorn—that licentiousness—the discharg
n from moral duties and that genera
scramble which leads the idle and th
w extravagant to hope for a time wtiei
r they may put their hands into the!
e neighbors’ pockets—call it what yOl
d please—it is tyranny. It is no matte
0 whether the Emperor of Turkey rob
I his subject of his property—or whether
under the notion of equal rights, th
d property earned by another shall be ta
ken from him by a majority. I wowl
e not choose the latter. On the cootra
t- ry, give me Turkey, fori would prtfe
one despot to ten thousand.
KENTUCKY CONVENTION—SLA
s TESY.
y We insert the following extract fron
d speech of Mr. Tcrmsb, in the Ken
tucky Convention, merely on aceoum
rt of the statistics respecting the alav<
[m population in that State:
c “As to emancipation, there wen
200,000 slaves in Kentucky, and t<
i a emancipate and remove them as som<
g proposed, would cost $10,000,000, ai
y lowing the cost of transporting each ne
ir g ro out of tbe State to be $6O a head
The interest, to say nothing of the prin
cipal of such a debt, would be a tax u
f. which the people never coaid and nev
d er would submit; and to compel then
e to do it, would be to free the l 'ick and
j r enslave the white race.

n “There was $61,000,000 in the slavi
te property in Kentaeky. On the eapi
:e tal the profits were less than three pei
cent., but half the amount the satm
moneyed capital would yield. It wai
clearly not for their interest to increase
u that capital. Of the 200,000 slaves it
Kentucky, three-fourths were superan
ousted, such as women in a conditioi
id unfitted for labor. Oat of forty or fif
j- ty slaves, if there were ten valuable o
to available, it was as much as could h
at expected. This estimate would no
t- earn their support, one quarter, or 60,
to 000 laborers, whose profits might t»
t; valued at $6O per annum each, or $3,
is 000,000 annually. Deducting $2O i
e» head for raiment and support, end than
>y would be left a profit of $2,000,000
Then deducting five per cent, for death
re and the net profit on e of
n. 000,000, would be $1,096,000, or foe
tie than three per eem.“
ii- 1
r, Cniwijio Tobacco ij* Bfitnirs,
id knew the pious sod eccentric Eide
Westlake ot Indiana, well. At a oust
e- forty meeting once, he requested th
ftm people not to cbew tobacco in aestiot
and thee soil door of {japnrsit
So m/0 Bm *4*.
«ards, finding that hie request did *e
have the desired effect, be said It
In, tkeoi.' “If you wiU chow tobadco, 1
_ wish you would bring along with yen
r- some old kora or aa old shoe to spit mV
e- M 
The surest and most effectual gold
diggers are these who use the plough
And spade, to the pursuit of agriculture
Kenneth’s Address to the Country
Farewell, ray belsved country Farewell,
land of the Magyars! Fetewell, thou ~n<l
ot Borrow I Bball never more behoUJ ito,
summit of thy mountain*. I hall
again give the name of my **oeotry to
cherished soil where I drank ~0! “i .-LlTj
liter’• bosom the m«*k ol justice an 1
Pirduu, nu! p.rJonli,m «h«
condemned to wander far tn»m thee, because
be “batted for thy happme«. Pardon one
who can ihiTv «tl free that spot of tl.y sotl
wbeie he now kneel* w ith a lew ol the lailh
fol children of conquered Hungary. My last'
■'xvltß are fixed on my country, and 1 see theei
with anguish■ I look into the
•i« overshadowed..
u..
luture, hut that
i'hy plain* ate covered with bloow,
•tew of which pitiless destruction will change,
io black, the emblem of mourning lor the!
v iclories thy tons have gained over the saeri
hgtous enemies of thy uacred soil.
How many grateful heart* have sent tneur i
braver* to the throne of the Almighty j
How many tears have guahed irom their,
very depth lo implore pity’ How
blood has been shed to testify that the Mtg-,
var idolises hi* country, and that he know*
now to die for it. And yet, land of toy love,
thou art in slavery From thy very boeoin
will be forged the chain to bind all that t*
-acred, ami to aid all that if sacnlegtoua. U,
Almighty Creator, if thou loveat thy people
to whom thou didst give victory under our
heroic ancestor, Arpad, I implore thee not
to sink them into degradation. I speak to
thee, my country, thna from the abyss of my
despair, and whilst vet lingering on the tine*
hold of thy soil. Pardon me that a great]
i.umber ol thy sons have *hed their blood fur
thee on my account. 1 pleaded for thee, 1]
hoped lor lliee, even in the dark moment
when on thv brow was written the withering
word “liespaii.” 1 lifted my voice m thy
behall when men said, “be thou a »lav«. 1
wjrt the sword about my loma, and i gianpeu
the bloody plume, even when they
“Thou art no longer a nation on the soil ol
thy destiny on the pages
of thy story i» yellow and black letters
Death —The Colossus of the North baa set
hie seal to the sentence. But the glowing
,ron of the Fast shall melt that seal.
for thee, my country, that ha* shed so
much blood, there is no pity, tor does not
the tyrant eat bis bread on the hills formed
ut the bones of thy children
Magyars’ turn not aside your look* from
me, tor at this moment mine eye* flow with
teais for you, for the soil on winch my totter
ing steps still wander la named Hungary.
'My country, it is not the iron of th*
•tranger that hath dug thy grave: a i* not
the ihunder of fourteen nations, all arrayed
against thee, that hath destroyed thee, and it
it not the filteenth nation, traversing the
Carpathians, that has forced thee to drop thy
arms. No’ Thou ha*t been betiayed;
thou hast been sold, my country thy death
sentence hath been written, beloved ol my
heart, by him whose virtue, whose love for
thee I never dared lo doubt. \es in the
leivor of my boldest thoughts, 1 should almost
us soon have doubted of the existence of the
Omnipotent as have believed that he could
ever be a traitor to bis country. Thou hast
been betrayed by him in whose hand* J had
but a little space belbie deposited the power
ot our great country, which lie swore to de
fend, even to the Jasl drop of his heart's
blood. He hath done treason to his mother;
loi the glitter id gold hath been lor him mor*
seductive than that of the blood shed to «ave
Ills country. Base gain had more value in
his eyes than his country, and his Cod has
abandoned him, as he had abandoned hit
God, loi his allies in hell.
Magyars Beloved companions, blame me
not foi having cast mine eyes on this man,
and for having given lo him my place, ll
was necessary, for the people had bestowed
on him their confidence the army loved lum,
and lie obtained a power of which 1 my sell
would have been proud. And, nevertheless,
Uns man belied Um» nation,
and his rt*>aid the love of the army witli
hatred. Curse him, pfcopie of the Magyar*
Curse the breast which did not first dry up
betore it gave him its milk. 1 idolize thee,
O thou most faithful of the nations of Europe,
a« idolize the liberty for which thou hast
proudly and bravely combatted. Hie God of
liberty will never eliace thee from lus memo
ry. May eat thou be forever blest.
My principles have not been those of
Washington nor yet my acts those ot lell.
1 dedied a free nation—free as man cannot be
made but by God. And thou art tallen fad
ed as the Illy, but which in another season
put* forth ns flowers still more lovely than
before. Thou art dead —for hath not the
winter come on' but it will not endure so
lung *a that of thy companion under the fro
zen sky of Siberia. No! Fifteen nations
have Jug thy tomb but the hosts ol the
sixteenth will come to save thee. Be laiililul,
as thou hast been even to the present. Con
lunn to the holy eouusels of the Bib.e. Lilt
up thy heart in prayer lor the depaited but
s d<y not raise thine own hymn until thou hear
er the thunder* of the liberating people echo
along the mountains and bellow in the depth
ol ihy valleys.
Farewell, beloved companions Farewell,
comrade countrymen May the thought ol
God, and may the angels of liberty forever
be with you Do not curse me. You may
well be proud, lor have not the lions ol Eu
rope risen from their lairs lu destroy the
•rebels r 1 will proclaim you to the civilized
world as heroe-s, and the cause of an heroic
people will be cherished by the freest nation
of ihe earth —the fu-est of all free people.
Farewell, thou land dyed with the blood
of the brave Guard those red marks they
will one day bear testimony on thy behalf.
And'thou, farewell, O youthful Monarch ol
the Hungarians Foiget not that my uatioti
u not destined for thee. Heaven inspires me
with the confidence that the day will dawn
when it shall be proved to thee even on Ihe
ruined walls of Buda.
Mav the Almighty bless thee, my beloved
country.
Believe Hope and Love!
Yankee Sailohs Exhibited.—A Yauke«
vessel, called the Alert, being lately off the
Tartary coast, sent a boat’s crew ashore foi
wood but as they did not return, the captain
sunt a second and a third boat, neither ol
which came back. While the vessel was
cruising about in the vicinity, some twt
week* later, the boats returned, and the sail
ors reported that on going ashore they had
been seized by the native* aud exhibited
through ths country as curiosities, until their
exhibitor* were tired, when they were eel
free, and returned.—They were treated witli
the utmost kindness.
Education and Slavery.—Mr. ilowison
in Hunt’s Merchant’s Magazine, says,—
It is computed that there are m the StaU
of Virginia 16b,000 children, between sever
and sixteen years of age, and therefore fit foi
school. Of these, about 118,000 poor childrer
attend the free and Lancasteri»n schools, ai
average of twelve weeks in a year for eacl
child Twelve thousand more children an
sent lo college*, academies, and classics
schools. The remaining one buodred am
twcuty su thousand children, attend no seboo
at alt, and receive no education, except whs
egn be imparted by poor and ignorant pa
rents Bui yet farther there are in Vir
gima #tojt<B7 staves, free negroes
who are, wuthfew exceptions, *?!*olly nnedu
gated
Labob in the .’south —A correspondent
of the ChroiHitype, writing Irom Georgia,
esya of the working men of that State
“This class, in which embrace all who
get their living by then own maoual labor, is
the substratum of the white pepwlation ot ihe
Jioolh. Usn eiect# of slavery are most
strikingly BDtu. The wh*M? workman per
forms the same kind of labor as the eltres,
Lbv« aide by side with the slivs, end is do-
,r»<tcJ to hrt o*« •y« in iboaa of the alave, j
;„J in lhe*e of aociety, by the contact IV
work he p*rf*»rms is deg rid mg, because slams j
perform u. '(V poor workman hss noth mg j
10 incite bim to any efforts of self-elevation.
He may, possibly, educate himself and be
come wealthy Wit the disgrace of wort will
Mill disc to him. IV not envy
him hi* lot. Of all white men that I have
yet seen, the work ingrown of the South, with
rare exceptions, are tfteioweat and moot de
graded. Many of them arenas ignorant and
nearly aa stupid as the Macke. They are
the moat unfort unite of all the victims of
slavery.
The Printers are an exception to all that I
have said above. Negroes are not allowed to
learn the printer's trade, and the printer m
not brought into contact with them A priu
•rtniar, everywhere, and I am.
Wr mr The
Thk AnTfStuttraar Mu.. M
Rhode Irland Anti-Blavery Society he.-
annual meeting on Wednesday and Thure*
day—dav and eveniags, at Mechanics Hall.
The meeting on Wednesday was numerous
ly attended, and in the evening a large nurn
beT were nut able to obtain seats. Tw
speeches were eloquent, amusing, affecting,
and deeply interesting. We have seldom
listened to s more eloquent, logical and truth
ful speech than that of Mr. Remond, (color
ed,) of Salem, Maas., or to a more touching
appeal to the heatta and heads of thinking,
i feeling beings, than that of lrederick lhiug
i The meetings on Thursday were addressed
by Messrs Douglass, Burleigh, Bradburn,
and several other*. In the evening, the hall
was crowded, and the remarks, as usual,
were forcible and convincing. I hi* meeting,
on the whole, baa been one ol the moat in
teresting that our anti-slavery friend* have
held for many years. Poridenc* Mtrrar.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, DECEMBER 7, 1849.
About OurtclTCs.
The year 1850 is nigh at iiand. With the new
year commences a new volume ot the Nori H
Star. The year which is near it* close, la* heeu
u» us, we are forced to confe*e, a time uf much
apprehension and discouragement. We hare not
t«een supported in our labors with that ready liber*
ality which the cause we advocate demands. Our
subscription list has never, during the year, been
sufficiently large to meet current expense* and
were it not that we have received liberal donations
from our and the slave’s Iriends, to help us on our
wav, the paper would now be deeply in debt, and
«r should, perliaps, though unwillingly, be compelled
to abandon the undertaking, as beyond oar means.
Friends, do you desire this! Do you think it best
that the North Star should be allowed to lan
gnish'? Is it of so little service to the cauie of
freedom that it can even be entirely dispensed with'?
We think not. We know that it hat done good,
and that it is every week increasing in usefulness.
We fee. persuaded, moreover, that yon agree with
us. Tiie paper must lie sustained. We are ready
to perforin our part of the duty. We are prepared
to commence a third campaign; but we must look to
oiliers to furnish the means. The question is still
as |>ertinent as ever—“ Who goeth a warfare at hi*
own charges'!” The next year promises well for
the cause of the slave. Signs already appearing
above the political horizon, indicate the near ap
proach of a coming storm. The standard of 1 ree
dom ia floating in the breeze, and there is marshalled
around it a mighty and ever increasing liost. The
enemies of justice and humanity flag and falter.
They see tliat the day of reckoning draws nigh, and
fear takes hold open them. We are unwilling to
desert our post at such a lime. We must appeal to
our readeia to aave ua from this uecessity. \ou
must do something, a* well aa we. It is not enough
that you paj your SRbsci iption—that k*w«U. it is
not enough that yoa 4tnd your paper to a usiglibor—
that also is well. But the cause demands that you
should do more. You must work, work! never
ceasing, at every opportunity chat presents itself,
to urge the cause of the slave, and the claims of
anti-slavery agencies. It is oot much that we ask
for ourselves; but it is all-important that it should
fie done. It is this: That each one of our readers
should send on, during the present month, iiis own
subscription and the subscription of a friend. Do
this, and the North Star will be firmly fixed in
the anti-slavery firmament for another year, and we
shall be strengthened and encouraged. The pre
mium we have to offer you for the performance of
this service, is, the thanks of the oppressed, the
blessing of those who, under the lash, are ready to
perish, and the grateful consciousness of having
dune your duty.
Letter from the Editor.
NO 111.
Worcester, Mass. Dec. 3d.
1 am not about to give you a long account
of the series of meetings held by Charles Le
nox Reraoud and myself, in this Slate. Du
ring the past week we have visited Hubbards
town, Wymansville, Gardner, Westminster,
and Marblehead, and have held respectable
meetings in them all. It i»im)>oasible to hold
such meetings without doing a certain degree
ol good. The bare fact that a meetir.g it
held for the purpose of considering the cause
of the slave, and to set forth the duty of men
and Christians, in respect to the slave system,
must have a beneficial effect upon the comwuk
nity. “Keep it before the people,” is the'
true philosophy ol the anti-slavery cause, a*
it oertainly is, of all other reforms. I,et the
subject be discussed let the nation have no
rest; let their ears be perpetually assariod by
the slave's complaint, till like the unjust judge
whom we as a nation so much resemble, they
shall be compelled, by untiring importunity, to
1 the chains of the plundered bondman.
The great topic of conversation in this re
gion, among mer. ol all shades of opinion, re
lates to what may be tbe action ot the Con
gress which meet in Washington this morn
ing, with respect to slavery. All seem to
apprehend a fierce and bitter conflict this win
ter —a struggle which shall surpass that which
i occurred twenty-nine years ago on a similar
question. This apprehension is well founded.
Tbe question of slavery is about to try the
strength of our blood-polluted Union; and a
second great marriage of slavery and freedom
will, 1 fear, be attempted. The South is
ready and prepared to resist to any extent, the
admission of California, wuh its present boun
daries, into the presepi sisterhood of States,
unless it can, at the same time, secure the in
troduction ofs/ocery into New Mexico. This
will doubtless be the issue, the bone of con
tention, and tbe cause of tbe conflict. Ami
such a conflict! Hour appropriate to the
model Republic—a straggle between Frtedom
and &fat*ry. Give attention—Oh *ye despots
of tbe old world—to the voice of tbe grave
Senate of tbe Untied States of Amenea —the
of W ashmgton and Jefleraon—and beer
witfi heartbUuure the eloquent sons of
democratic and revolu^? I freedom, ransack
heaven, earth, and hell, for argu!?* ,,u
which to defend the foul,haggard,and damn
mg curse of human bondage l What a da
play ut Republican fraud and hypocrisy a w
store for tbe world! A few weeks will deter
mine the result of this conflict.
MnovrMU*, it is jStmui Ural very little eo«i-
Jatcc can be ttgbifuUjr repoeed to oortkcra
nMO on this qtfwtkm. To aappeee Ural they
will stand firmly U the admiseten of oof
mote slave States, is to suppose again** oil
experience, afd against oil emergencies io
Xfckh their metal bos been put to the test—*
The friends of the slave would lain hope fat
Meres* in the immediate result, but it would
be hoping against hope. The South is more
than o tnatcb for all the enemies of slavery in
Christendom, if they will consent to meet her
on constitutional ground. l\«reil inequality
io the yery metsl of tho men. The South has
the advantage. She cunning, active, per* j
severing and resolute. Accustomed to rule,
ahe has carefully studied the means by whieh
to perpetuate tier rule. The strong aeese of
•wide of position, combined with eeppoeed
give to the slaveholders all tho
elf-iniere.., What baa the
rinauge of i
Sonh to oppwe Micll 1»J ...11.
Miolp, ipah*. re a
„rf uimihly men wlto t«to P>'«
Mutliern blooler.ooJ yield Vke 'de*gk
lyrant'spreeeure.
lieve thftl tti» North, tod not the Sooth, will
yield, Md that slavety will ho ‘'luro
pi,ant. John C. Calhoun ia more than a
match for ihe whole North, on conatilotioutl
grooode. SlareholdrA were ciutano al the
formauou of this government, and no one at
that day called in question their equality with
all other citizens. Their slave property was
respected by the fiatuer* of the Constitution,
and is respected now by the Constitution it
self. IJpon this ground Calhoun and the
whole South may stand, and u-i/A-atand all
the pow er that the North can bring constitu
tionally lo beat upon them. 'Io meet slave
holders successfully, we must throw off the
fetters of the Constitution. The question
must be decided in the light of a higher and
truer standard. The ground must be distinct
ly taken, that slavery, like murder and every
oilier monstrosity, has no right anywhere,
and ought to be abelished everywhere. This
is the only ground to be taken successfully
against slaveholders and their abettors. Bui
1 must hasten.
Remond and myself li3d two excellent
meetings in this city yesterday, and are to
hold another this evening.—f. n.
[The letter breaks off here with a promise
from the writer that he will send more soon.
The remainder will be given next week.]
The Bazaars. —-The last No. of the
North Star, speaking of the Edinburgh
Ladies’ Anti-Slavery Society, says
“This Society has been applied to, for
assistance, by the Managers of the Philadel
phia Bazaar, but they have resolved to sand
as formerly, to Boston.
Will the North Star please to correct this
mistake The managers of the Philadelphia
Fair have not applied for aid, either to the
Edinburgh Ladies’ Anti-Slavery Society, or
any other Society in Great Britain. They
did make a general request tor aid, to such
of our English friends as might be inclined
to assist them, and their appeal was success
ful but they had no wish or intention to
draw to their Fair any portion of the contri
butions which have before been sent to Bos
ton. We believe that the English friends
who have been active in piocuring contribu
tions for them, have never worked for the
Boston Fair. The Philadelphia friends
thought that a little effort might elicit more
aid from England, for our Fairs, than has
usually been given to them, and we trust
that the results of the Boston and Philadel
phia Fairs will prove that they were not
mistaken.
We thank the Standard for directing our
attention io this matter.
While this subject is before us, we will
ask the editor of the North Star, how he re
ceived the impression that some objections are
felt here, against the North Star Fair, which
is in course of preparation in this city 1 We
have never heard any one object to it, and
believe that, as far as it is known, it is regard
ed with friendly interest by the abolitionists
of this region. It certainly has our hearty
wishes for Us success, as has the paper which
it is designed to aid.
REPLY TO THE -»BOVt.
The alleged mistake to which the Freeman
refers,was made on the authority of a member
and officer of the Edinburgh Ladies’ Anti-
Slavery Society. The explanation of the
matter by the Freemen, a* quoted above, does
not show the alleged mistake to be a real
one, but the contrary. The Freemen says,
they did make a genet al request for aid “to
such friends as might be inclined to assist
them.” Wo think this/broad and general
enough to include. ftiends; and
a reliable member of the Edinburgh Society
.informs us that they considered themselves in
cluded, and felt themselves applied to for
Now, why should tbi* be denied*
Jfl'hat if the Philadelphia friends did so ap
ply 7 Was it a erime so to do 7 —or why
should the Freeman disclaim the deed as if it
wore a mean and disgraceful tiling 7 The
Freeman says, they had “no wish or intention
do draw to their fair any portion of the cun
iftbuttons which hav*i been before sent to
Boston.” Who said they had any such wish
or intention 7 The North Star never charged
them with any such wish or intention. It
stated a simple fact, and we can give our
authority if necessary, for that fact.
We accept the Freeman's of
friendliness to the North Star Fair, shortly to
be held m Philadelphia, and shall hope to
see it evinced by the presence of some of our
Aoti-alaveiy friends at the occasion.—r. b.
Tm DhiramchiB£d American.—A friend
in Philadelphia saji that he think* we have
tamed a wrong estimate of this paper, and
that our notice of k was unjust. We still
think otherwise. We quite agree with ou
correspondent that the colored people in
Philadelphia would he benefitted by having a
well conducted paper amongst them. To
our thinking the Ram't Hum, which was
published in Philadelphia at the time the
Ihs/ramduteJ Amnu an appeared, was quite
so well conducted as it is. Why was a new
paper started in opposition to the bUun't
Horn •Is there room for two papers l When
we get sn answer to this question, we shall
perhaps see esnse to change our nuod res
pecting the abject of the [hsfrandHaei
America*. In the mean liinc, we hare seen
nothing to convioce us that we are in enor
'respecting it. We shall be happy to hod tbs
DuJra*cJu±ed American taking a manly and
liberal coarse and shall be most ready when
it doss so, to wish it God speed
R4U/VCTIO* Of PufTJyUi.—Tb« PtM MuUl
GmocaTs RopuU h*» bee* published. The
b.puC** l L p i‘72r:£** !S_ I
14.V04,U00. The cau
revenue wiuhiuu
mate for U»e current ye*. 7 tlfoodiuireje
$4 750,000. A uniform rate of
postage it recommended. »_ *ju
-*#k
Thi Ifttaat Aot of
A few week* since, tome «f *h* eolM
inhabitants of this ritjft ignorant of their tree
iatmttl, and probably instigated by *we
white parson*, over etjnwe judgment and bal
let focliogs colorphofcia and ateomy b«W
complete control, promoted a petHlea to the
Board of Education for the establishment of
a school for the accomodation of colored chil
dren oo the East aide of the river. A Coto
mittse of tbe)Board, appointed to inquire into
the matter, reported unfavoiably to the pr*f
it of the petition. They urged against it
the additional eapense the difficulty ol pro
raring a suitable teacher on the terms nffer
•d; the usual thinness of attendance to some
»f the -District schools and the scarcity of;
roods, which, last year, for several month*,
necessitated the closing of some, if not ot all
the schools, both while and colored. It was
bought by every rattonal man that altogeth
er independent of the impolicy of establish
ng colored schools, and thereby fostering a
tricked and unmeaning prejudice against eof
jr, there .were reasons urged in that report
jot only amply sufficient to discourage u.e
establishment of* new colored school, but also
lead to the entire overthrow of the system ot
teparale schools in thi* city. But prejudice
It woald seem, is beyond reaion. It will not
lUten to reason. I» argument, and
sets every motive ot right and Christianity at
defiance. The following note will show the
result of the agitation on this subject
Rochester, l>ec. 3d. 1849.
Ma. Douglass Sir,—' The recent action
of the Board of Education of this city, in es
tablishing a school on the East side of the
river, for the instruction of colored children,
has made it my unpleasant duty to dismiss
from the school all such children, that they
may attend the schoolhouse mentioned.
Youts respectfully,
W. C. FEGLES,
Instructor in No. 15. j
Of course f lie colored children, tyho thus
summarily received theii dismissal from the.
District school, for the crime of color, will
not go to the new school which pride and;
prejudice have prepared for their accomtuo-i
dalion. It were belter that they should pickj
up their education in the gutter, than submit
to such degradation. We invite all the col
ored people on the East side of the river, to
adopt this plan. If your children are good
for anything, they will be all the more likely
to ptosper because of the opposition of tbe j
Board.
Who the persons composing the Board ot;
Education now are, we know not; and it is)
not a matter of much consequence who or
what they are. But we may say respecting
them; that by establishing a second colored
school, and by bribing the poor, mean men
who are the trustees of Zion church, to allow
the basement of that church to be used for a
schoolhouse, they have done what they could
to perpetuate slavery and prejudice. “The]
colored people desired it,” they say. Some;
of them did, we allow. Either instigated by i
white influence, or under a mistaken idea that
their children would in this way be delivered
from insult and ill will, some of the colored
people did desire it. Say that it is so—what
then 1 Will the Board assert that they
thought the petitioners had consulted their
own interests by urging such a request
And if they did, wasit needful that the Board
should accede to it 1 Is it usual for Ameri
cans to be so marvellously ready to give col
ored men all that they ask 1 Nay, verily 1
The petition was in accordance with the mean
and vulgar prejudices of the Board them-
selves. They desired the separation of the
colored children. Some of these gentlemen,
we have no doubt, can declaim bravely, and
by the hour, agajnst the tyranny of European
aristocracies. Gentlemen, we would say to
them, your censure is well merited your in
dignation is just. The aristocracies of the
Old World are tyrannical, despotic, oppres
sive. We rejoice that you have minds to ap- 1
predate and hearts to teel for the oppressed
in other lands. We would not say a word
calculated to damp your ardor or to chock the
outpouring of your sympathies. The masses
of Europe are poor, oppressed, degraded. i
Raise your voices in their behalf! Cry aloud
and spare uot! Tell the oppressor of his
wrong-doing Hold the mirror up to nature
and let the tyrant see his own guilty teatures
reflected therein But remember that ev- j
ery word you utter against the wickedness of!
the wicked in other lands, if it tells upon them
at all. must cut you to the quick. The aris
tocracy of skin is meaner and infinitely more
irrational than the aristocracy of rank. Ty j
ranny, is at all times and in all circumstances
mean. The man of true nobility can never;
be a tyrant. For a man to tyrannise and put
on aira of supenorty, because he is descended
from a Percy, or a Vilhers, or a Nell Gwynn,
sufficiently ridiculous, hut to assume supe
riority on the ground of having a pale face, i
is an act so simply absutd and idiotic, that it
would seem impossible tin any out of a luna
tic asylum, or drivelltmg idiocy to be guilty
of. The tank aristocrat has a halo of mys-,
terious antiquity thrown around him, and pos
sibly the glory of wealth and a great name,
which may require a certain degree of irrev
erence to cast asuie. Tbe akin aristocrat ha*
—nothing but the fortuitous circumstances oi
being born of white parents, and in aoolddi
mate. On the same ground, and with an
equal show of reason, the polar bear and
the beasts, if there are any, that live amid the
perpetual snow* of tbe arctic circle, may claim
superiority over every animal that inhabits
both tbe temperate and torrid zones, and the
ignorant Greenlander and Esquimaux, tie
smeared in grease and filthiness, must also
rank above tbe polished inhabitants of the
temperate conatriea of Europe and America.
Is it so let ilie poor victims of prejudice
and coiorphobia m this country, answer, and
let ibeir anawei prove the irrationality, absur
dity and wickedness ot their procedure toward
their colored countrymen.
It is this prejudice and nothing else that ex
cludes colored children from the district
sehosk in this cuy. We have not so mean
as opio*oo of ou r fellow-townsmen as to sup
pose that ah, or even the majority ot thorn,
art under tbe influence of fom wicked .preju
dice. We eao point to ooT and another—
many who are exempt from it. We are sor
ry that the intelligence, liberality and right
feeling of Rocheoter aboald be repieaemed
by such men as the Board of Education by
thou recent scan have proved the novel vw to
ho. Wo w«nid that it hod Jmeo otherwise,
wo wjil not hold »U responsible for the
mean and wicked riclutiienctl of
w»d in erJer that (he honor or dtabermr of*•*
•ct may ten M lt M shoulders of
those who performed it* we shall like no ear
ly opportunity 0 f godiag out who compose
the Beaid of Edueaiiei of this city and
publish them abroad, as the abettors of sla
very and oppression—as the enemies of pro
reas and of right.—j. o.
Lewis Cass oa
Some of the friends of General Csss, in
New Yotk admiring bis politics! course, snd
wishing to do him honor, recently tendered
him a public dinner. The accomplshed time*
server replies, and takes the oppoiluniir ol
referring to the expected difficulties in Con
gress. “'Fhe l':iiun—the whole Union'"
is his motto. .Su iuuitct through what a sea
of iniquity it msy Ik* needful to wsdc, for its
preservation no matter if three millions of
slaves should be doomed for that end to clank
their chains to all eternity uo matter it the
curse of slavery should be extended over the
new territory—the Union still! "A spirit of
romprurmn*c is necessary.*’ This from the
man whom the free suffrage ol the American
people cauie very near electing to the office ol
Chief Magistrate 1 Auieiica would have
been disgraced for cvet if they bad Does
he not know that one cannot make a compro
mise with wrong-doHig, without sanctioning
the guilt l Does he nut know that one can*
not compromise with a robber either by shar
ing his plunder, oi permitting him to cairy it
u ff on payment of a ptice, without becoming
accessory to the crime The almost-Presi
dent also recommends “iqutual forbearance
Bah Hypocrisy insufferable When the
murderer lias the knife at the throat of his vic
tim, the witness of the intended minder must
say nothing—do nothing to prevent hit* l frJTn
carrying oqt hl9 and thus obey Gen.
Cass* f'hristian exhortation to "mutual for
bearance.’* The incendiary is at the door of
your neighbor’s house: I'tier nut a word,
raise no alarm let him burn the house dow n'
Remember! "mutual forbearance!" A thief
is breaking into a neighboring store, with the
intention of taking what ia not his own
Keep quiet! let him alone "mutual forbear
ance." A gang of pirates are about to seize
upon a richly laden vessel, and to appropriate
its treasures to themselves. On consideration
of a ceitain reward, you are to hush the mat
ter up; Pocket the consideration! Still
"mutual forbearance Ur take the case in
point. Between one and two hundred thou
sand slaveholders are citizens of this Union.
You know them to be slaveholders; you know
that they claim to own them about
three millions of human beings;/you say that
slaveholding is wrong—wickejjf—a sin that
the slave is injured and oppressed. An ex
tensive territory has come tnp the possession
of the Union. Y«u think/ that to permit
slaveholders to go to this yew territory with
their “properly" will do much to perpetuate
slavery. By preventing /this result, you can
do much to overthrow slavery. What is your
duty f Is it not tu do justly—to let the op
pressed go tree 1 Must you stop to inquire
whether national greatness is at slake 1 Is it
a matter of indifference with you whether
your country becomes great by sanctioning
and protecting wickedness 1 Is it not a max
im with every honorable man that failure—
ruin—death—is preferable te dishonor
What is true of an individual is true also re
specting a nation. "Mutual forbearance
No’ This oily hypocritical talk about "mu
tual forbeaiance," is neither more nor less nor
else than so much doughface mist. The for
bearance is all on one side. Let the North and
the South go mio the new leintory on equal
terms —as freemen who hate slavery for them
selves, uud will have nothing to do within
dieting it upon others, and then talk about
"mutual forbearance.'’ Here is Gen. ’ass’s
letter:
New York, Nov. 26, 1849.
Gentlemen—l thank you for the honor
you have conferred upon me, by the oiler of
a public dinner, and while 1 decline the invi
tation, which 1 Host you will exeuse me for
doing, I cannot withhold the expression of
my feelings tor such 4 testimonial of regard
from the democracy of this great city. 1
shall cheiish it with grateful recellection dur
ing life.
I thank you, also, for the favorable terms
in which you have been pleased to allude to
tuy position and services. These, lam very
sensible, have few claims to consideration,
hut such as aie derived from your kind par
tiality. An emigrant to the West, in early
youth, the better portion of my life has been
spent in the great contest with nature, in
which the forest lus given away, and arr
empire has arisen, already among the most
magnificent creations of human industry and
enterprise. Placed m a geographical posi
tion to exetcew; a powerful mfiuence upon the j
duration ot tht* confederacy of republics, at-|
tached lo the Union, and to the whole Union,
and attached fu the principles of freedom, and
to the constitution by which these are guar-1
ded and secured, should ihe time ever come,!
as 1 trust it will not—and come whence and
why it may—when dissolution shall find ad
vocates, and (he hand of violence shall at
tempt to sever the bond that holds us to
gether, the est will i,se up as one man, to
stav a deed so fatal to the cause of liberty
here and throughout the world—aye, and it,
will be stayed. Success can never hallow
the effort. It we are out struck by judicial
Umdne**, we shall hold on to the constitu
tion with a tenacity defying tune and accident,
than king the God of our lathers and our
own fiod for [•optical institution* uhicn have
us a greater measure of national pros
perity than rt has ever been the lot ofauy
people before us to enjoy.
We have bat one danger to fear. Aa to
military power and the general corruption of
tnanoera and morals—causes to which histo
ry attributes the fall of many republics to
ancient and modern days —l believe, if they
are not tbe last, they are among the last, of
the evils we have to apprehend. Our future
would be all the patriot could deaue, if that
future contained no other seeds of danger
than these. Tbe prophetic sagacity of Wash
ington foresaw and foretold the true danger
which threatens us, the danger of serfiod&l
interests and passions arraying one portion of
the Union against another. A spirit of com
promise was necessary 10 create this confed
eration and it is equally necessary to pre
serve it m its integrity and efficiency. W hen
questions come deeply afleebng the country,
and dividing it by geographical lines, then
comes the time of trial, which no true Ame
rican can eon template without anxiety. It ia
seldom that such issues can be presented
when mutuul forbearance is sot dictated alike
bf prudence mod by wisdom.
If 00s-half of a great country ahaadonieg
all other differences of opinion, is unanimous
its sentiments upon any measure of inter
nal policy, locally affecting itself, ns Cittieoa
should meet from their countrymen of the
Other section kindness, and not denunciation
argument, and not Tecnmmatioo and a
site to gpeoncile confecting opinions, ns
—uiz:: -Tax nMut
I thou rights or their poaiboo'caT*beT3l
an extensive eoaununity waboutUm existence
of fotciMe oa—ideieuoae, wkiefieaJ! for eare
fal eed for a wiee at «dl u a kind
doc—on. In this sptritefcould mUona! qoo*-
tioM bedieoaeeed, and if they ue so. they
will hnag wtth them danger but will
fumtah additions) motives for unios. and will
ooatnbute powerfully to oar etiengih and
pooperily.
I am, gentlemen, with great respect.
Your obedient servant.
LEWIS CASS.
The Cemsns.—Colored Pafalatoa.
We find in a letter by a correspondent ot j
the Tribune a statement that particular care
will be taken, in the census about to be made,
to ascertain the numbers, the length ot life,
Ac., of the colored people in this country
What practical put pose this measure i* intend
ed to seme, we do not see. If it is to de
termine what climate is suited to ceitsm con
stitutions, w« conceive it to be a rather
damay mode of making the inquiry. We
art of opinion, however, that it is neithei
mote nor less than another exhibition of
American prejudice and hate against the
colored man, which is ever on the outlook
for some new scheme of insult, oppression,
and injury. The proposal is made by Mr.
Clingman, of North Carolina, and is in part
as under. This extiact shows to what hope
the enemies ot the colored man turn—no
other than his ultimate extinction. Ameri
cans have well nigh exterminated the Indian,
and now they would exterminate the negro.
Pray Heaven that the hope of the American
negro-hater may be blasted. We almost
wish that the colored people of this country
aright never cease to be colored, (though We
are of opinion that climate does much in a
tew generations, to modify both the color
and the constitution,) and that their
•?.&mies may thus be compelled i n spite ot
their pride and prejudice, to acknowledge,
that the black man is, not less than the white
man, the image of God—the son of God—
the equal child of an all beneficent Father.
Mr. Clingman’a suggestion, it is said, will
be carried out to some extent.
“1 desire to call your attention to the im
portance of obtaining fuller and more accurate
information than has hitherto been elicited
with reference to that portion of our popula
tion which is a mixture between the pure
white and the black iaces. 1 would there
fore suggest to you the propriety of ascertain
ing not only the number of all such persons,
whether free or slaves, but of presenting fur
ther inquiries. For example, let there be an
inquiry as to the parents of such mulatto oi
mixed-blooded persons. If they are ascer
tained to be white and black, there would be
no need of any further questions but should
the patents, or either of them, be of mixed
blood, then direct an inquiry as to the grand
parents, and so on, until, if practicable in
every case, the pedigree should be tracej to
the individual .white and black races. I
would also recommend that in all cases ol
adult females of mixed blood, the number ol
children, if any, bestated. By adopting this
mode of examination, we shall not only as
certain the number of persons of this descrip
tion in the United States, but we would also
be able to determine the length of their lives
and their powers of reproduction, as compared
with those of the puie races,”

“We also determine whether, from
their numbers, they constitute such a per
centage of our population as to lead in any
given period to the destruction of the less
numerous or black race. We should like
wise be able to decide whether the mixture
thua produced would be a permanent addi
tion of an inferior grade of our population, or
,whether it would be totally extinguished by
running in some instances into one of theotigi
nal types, so as to exhibit no traces of the
other.”
There is a hint at what is in the
mind of Mr. Clingman. It is no less than
this, that mulattos are a hybrid racs, and like
other hybrid animals, die ont. What an aw
ful accusation against slave-holders is involved
in this supposition! Abolitionists never
charged them with the commission of any
such revolting and unnatural crime. The
Mosaic law, says (and if we mistake not,
U. Status law agrees therewith,) that when
one commits this sin, “he shall suiely be put
to death.” The conviction, upon very cir
cumstantial evidence of not a few honorable
men, would be a work of no great difficulty.
Will the Census bear Mr. Clingman out hi
his surmise l Jack Ketch may have business
on hand, if it does. j. d.
Thirty-First Congress;
We have, at present, only very imperfect
telegraphic reports of the proceedings of Con
gress. On the 3d, the Senate was called to
order by Hon. M. Fillmore, Vice President.
Prayer by the Rev. Mr. Sheer. The toll
was called, and 37 members were found to be
present. The Senate being organized, a
motion was made that the House he notified
of the fact, after which the Senate adjourned.
House. —The Clerk called the roll, and 219
members answered to their names.
The following are the ballots for Speaker:
Ist ballot 2d bal. 3d bsl.
Wmthrop, 9b 9b
Cobb, 103 102 102
Wilmot, 800
Gentry, 0 b tt
No Speaker was elected, and the House
adjourned.
Dec. 4th. —The balloting was resumed
On the first ballot Cobb and Wmthrop receiv
ed the same number of votes aa yesterday.
Dec. 5 —-Still no Speaker elected. The
last, or 10th ballot, resulted as follows
Whigs. Drnoirut.
Wmthrop, Maes., 97 Cobb, Ua., 99
Gentry, Term 6 Wilmot, Pa., 9
Mann, Mas*, 2 Richard sou, 111 3
j Potter, Ohio, 4
Cleveland, Coon., 1
Stanton, Tenn., 1
Durkee, Wis., 1
Tea Faikeo or Youth. —We have receiv
ed the first number of this periodica). It is a
very neatly printed quarto of eight pages,
edited by Msacaarr L. Bailky, of Wash
ington The Editor announces her object to
be, to make the paper an attractive companion
of youth. “It shall also be our care to inter*
esl them m sll great subjects connected with
the well-being of mankind.” The well known
reputation of the writer, and of thoae associ
ated with her, ie this enteipitae, is a sufficient
guarantee that the object will be well earned
out The first nember i* interesting, aed
welt adapted to the capacities of these for
whom it is designed.
Amti-SlaVksy Mass Convurrio*.— W«
have just apace to state that the Aoti-Slavery
Standard has issued a CaU for a Mass Con
veeuoe of Abolitionists of the State of N'tw
York, to he held Syieeeee, on Tuesday,
the mk day of Jtunny, 1960. Particelars
next week.
14tk Aanaal Report ot Ike Rh ode |»hu,.|
Ani*si«Terr Society.
•f ther* i» ov»« thing more than another to
he learned from the anti-slavery movement,
u that Reform* are not consummated
speedily ae first anticipated. Attheorgani
tation of this Society, it was confidently h*
ped that as tenth Annual Report would an
nounce the end of American Chattel Slavery
rhis is ix* fourteenth, and yet this horrible,
hrutaiiring system, without the siigbn *s»l mit
igation of any one of its ten thousand features,
costs Its blighting presence extends over
as large an extent of country, as fourteen
yeais ago. The human flesh trade. ptraucal
though it is, has been as actively driven and
extensively this year, as »n any former one
Its contempt lor Constitutional law and civil
rights increases tu audacity. Still the public
sentiment ot the North ia essentially pro-sla
Terv For proof ot this, we have only to see
its late endorsement ot an atrocious and
bloody war, begun sod waged for the sole
purpose of extending and perpetuating sla
very. bv elevating to the Presidency one ot
the chief agents ot this war and a notorious
slaveholder. Our own state, to our shame be
it said, gave its suppoit to this same blood
stained tyrant, helped to elevate him in the
sight of nations as the tepresentative of our
humanity and our republicanism.
Yet some, nay, great progress has beer
mad*. The public mind Wmore sensitive yo
this subject, than ever before Thesiler.ee
of many pulpits has been partully broken
Many heretofore muzzled presses have dated
occasionally to ulier a free word Now and
then a public man ventures to intimate pteuy
plainly that slavery is not so sure and firm a
“corner stone” tor the Republic, as has
been supposed Recently v\e have seen a
very promising political party isserUDg as
one uf its foundation ptmaples, a burning
hatteJ to negro slavery, Black laws, have
been repealed, negtu pews and cats, to some
extent demolished. The lugitive is welcom
ed and protected. in Maryland the voice of
freedom has of late been heard, in Kentucky
10,000 men at the ballot box, have declared
for emancipation. In Missouri a voice is
heard, which, although almost “solitary and
alone,” is the forerunner of a brighter and
belter time, for never has that voice been
earnestly raised but that all the inhabitants of
the laud have heen made to heat and under
stand.
Again, our cause has been a pi oneer move
ment. Before the abolition uf chattel sla
very could be effected, a host of other re
forms needed to be set on foot, its business
has been to. diffuse light. The people need
ed to lie educated concerning their duties and
relations as human beings, before action could
be induced either on then own or other's be
half. Hence our success is to be estimated
by the ptesent condition of the public mind
immediately around ua.
Death has been among os and taken from
our companionship an earnest and unwearied
fellow laborer, Mrs. Maty Hathaway. For
years Mrs. H. has been a member of the Ex
ecnttve'Cominiltee, and has ever proved her
selt an unwavering friend of keedom. Hex
unc unpromising fidelity and earnest deeds
have now, tor her a place among those ‘wAe
lave their fellow men.' Her post is vacant,
who will volunteer to fill it T To her family
we can only say, we mourn with and for you.
To our sisters of the Ladies Society, of w Inch
the deceased was an efficient member, Your
burden is increased; redouble your diligence:
stand to your post, so that when you go the
way of all the earth, of each it can be truly
said, “«SAc hath done what she could. To
the surviving member of the Executive Gooi
mittee “Work while the day lasts.”
Our Society during the past year has been
employed about as in former yeais. Fairs in
Pawtucket and Providence, have been held
with the usual success. Also ateaparty, and
public meetings by W. W. Brown, C. C
Butleigh and the Crafts, have been held in
the citv. The Office has been sustained,
and the usual number of publications circu
lated therefrom. We owe especial thanks lo
the anti-slavery women, who, by mean* of
these fairs, have so generously assisted us.
Thus toil and self denial, shall be as far as
possible, appreciated by us and held in grate
ful remembrance. To them we say “Go on,
go on, go on Wear* still needy and must
have your help.
A greater number of fugitives have coma
among us the piesent than during any farmer
year. At one time a company of eight per
sons—five of them children at another thei*
weie six persons." Some time before the ar
rival of tins last company, a man, a fugitive,
came and labored until he had saved a small
sum of money, then teiuined to hi* family
who were yet in siaveiy. On reaching their
quarters he found that two of his children had
died during his absence. Still he was not to
be prevented from bringing his full number
So he pers jaded three other persons, slaves,
to come with him. They all arrived in tali*
ly. Since last spring, this man, besides sup
porting his family, has saved sod deposited
m the Saving’s Bank, £5O Another fugi
live in the same time has deposited sd9.
Another over and above supporting his laon
ly, lias saved two hundred dollars within
years. While the slaveholders are becoming
bankiupt, their self-emsncipsted slave*
growing rich. We see who they are who
“can’t take caie of ihemaelvfß.” AH the
fugitives among us ate doing well.
there it room
By a vole of the Executive Committee,
the following subject* are referred to the An
nua! Meeting, viz Raising funds —Continu-
ance of the Anu-Slavety Office
Unless funds are received, all o|>ei attune
must c*a»e. What anti-slavery man is willuif
to lake the responsibility of saying «h* l
W# are certain no Aim-Slavery woman wtu-
For the want of a few paltry dollars, n, l
that ugn “Anti-Slavery Office,” which h*»
been literally a “star in the East” to man) a
panting fugitive, cheering him with th*
promise of sympathy, and telling anxious
aoui that beneath it, be will find a borne,
telling him that within, there are aim heaite
and ready hands to feel f>>i, encourage, sus
tain and protect him. be taken down lr
cannot be *o 1 il ever a depot of Anti-SD*«-
ry intelligence was needed, it ia now If ertt
a rallying place (or Anti-Slavery woikem was
needed, it ia tba present time. What place
can batter be such than ihe old ~A ah-&eee
r t C fjjut Surely ibis question of funds,
should be the last to engree* oei au*r»uen.
Surely it does no* become ua to conquer
time thus, or permit our dhta la
lor want of money, when the interests of lM*l
inanity ere at stake. But it ia needed Med
ed now. So long as souls inhabit Met, our
sympathies rauet mam feat them tel to» in UM
and eari teat deed— cloth inf ikfnlwi ever
and enon in gold end atfoer niment. **Wt
lov« our money for the good it wiU do. Wo
lore our money, bat wo lore the eooee of the
■town trodden end bleeding poor far better,"
the language of every true Rhode Isfstuf
oeait.
Much yet re mama to be done in oar etete.
A quickened public sentiment,* needs to he
educated and guided. The developments
•f the Slave ay stem, aa they transpire, most
be spread oat before the minde of oar people,
their datiee in consequence, made clear and
urged home upon them, or the impulses of
this public sentiment, will begin to boat in e
wrong direction; at least, will become imbecile
and ineffective What wa do mast be dooe
quickly and energetically. We must take the
xM at the flood While we remain idle, the
enemy is strengthening his hands. The re
mit of neglecting an awakened public senti
ment may, perhaps, be seen in the retrograde
movement of the Free Soil Party. We hoped
that it would have proved our savior, but U
teems to have gone to the sepulchre to min
gle with the bones and dust of former polities!
efforts liberty wise. At our peril, then, are
we idle. By awaking speedily, acting ensr
geticaily, we may now ground and eeioblieh
vut principles immovably. At our peril, we
»<v, do we remain idle, because only in the
success of oiu cause is lift oi happiness of
any value to us. Ours ia the sacred cause of
freedom For ue to fail is for despotism to
triumph. The triumph of despotism is our
destruction. Never did the spirit of oppres
sion struggle as she now struggles. She
now must either conquer or die. Her death
our victory. Here in Rhode Island we
must awake. Why should we, of all others
oe exempt 1 We have a work to do. So
long as there it a slave in bondage, we are
verily guilty before God ;and mao, if we are
not putting forth our mightiest exertions to
i, berate him. Prejudice, dark and bitter aa
the spirit of hell, is all around us. Who, say
who shall destroy it if not we 1
God grant that the 15th Annual Report of
lias Society may be a record of a year’s
arduous, faithful labor. The time requires
dadi not words.
AMARANCY PAINE, Ssc’ry.
Letter from Calvin Fairbanks.
Pike, Nov. 30ih 1849.
Dlar Brother —1 had intended sometime
:,nce to have written you after the meeting of
the ladies in Buffalo'for the purpose of heai
ing the report of their committee sent to the
venerable Gerritt Smith, with means and in
'irucuons to present him with a Silver Piteh
ti as a token of respect and regard for hie
generous patriotism and Christian philanthro
pe toward their people, the people of color,
with whom he, and 1 hope I, feel to all intents
and purposes identified.
1 teel the most exquisite pleasure when I
am able to inform you that that meeting was
one arguing most strongly the claims of the
coloied people to the rights and immunities
extended to, and enjoyed by other men of oth
er complexion in the United States.
Although it is said of public meetings held
by ladies, "that there is a vacancy there which
can be filled only by man,’ yet, at this meet
,ng, held on Tuesday evening, Nov. 20th,
there was a degree of ordeT, in
terest and impressing solemnity characteristic
only of a generous, intelligent, patriotic and
Christian people.
The meeting was opened by some intro
ductory remarks by Abner H. Francis, their
Committee to Mr. Smith, in relation to his in
tellectual and moral character, his sincerity
and the demonstrations of his philanthropy.
He entered into an account of Mr. Smith s
ultimate design in the be3lowment of land to
<ur people of color; the situation and fertili
ty of those lands, and the importance of im
mediately improving the opportunites heid oul.
The merits of Mr. Smith, aa he had ascri
bed and forgone any and all high stationa in
he gift of the people, for the sole purpwee oi
defending the oppressed, nominally free men
color, together with the utility and practi
cability of presenting him this token of re
gard. It is truly mallei of importance and
has added much to their intellectual and mor
al weight. This token confirms what I
have often said, that that people may own no
superiors in point ot gratefulness for friend
•nip and favor. This token will not only
have a tendency to atimnlate Mr. Smith m
his labor of love, but others, and mt. Aftei
this. Mr. Francia proceeded to deliver, or re
hearse Mr Garnet s speech on the presenta
tion of the pitcher. The nature of the ad
dress, and the occasion rendered it truly sol
emn and impressive. Mr. Smith’s speech
on its reception, was next read, with his ex
pression of thanks for such a token. Mr.
Francis’ speech which was delivered before
Mr S&ith at this interesting gathering o!
triends was next read. Ihe whole scene as
represented by Mr Francis, was really mag
nificently solemn and imprestve. Nothing oi
the kind, in my opinion, could have interest
ed me more than to have been present on this
occasion. But the meeting of the society
the vast number of people in attendance, to
gether with the decorum end ability with
which it was conducted, rendered it quite an
imposing occasion.
Let me r.ot forget the people til Detroit.—
It is impossible to eiptese the feeling I pos
sess for that people for their kindness mani
fevted low aid me whi»e there in October,
and the industry, economy, politeoeeeand vig
ilance of that people, touching charitable sad
religious subjects, especially the eauee of the
slave. There is a spirit kindled there daily
among the dry, prepared wood in the heerfr
ot those who were once slaves, be* who*
nothing can now enslave. 1 say nothing, be
cause, first of til they possess power of Bind,
and next, they have secured the good will ai
the comrnuhity; and in the last plaoe, it ie
out of the power of the South to enslave
them Thank God!
i hope soon (about Christmas) to be in
Buffalo again, prepared to address the people
once more, when I intend to give them in de
tail my experience in Kentucky. 1 intend
then, to proceed to your city, where 1 hope
io enjoy a happy meeting of the friends of
man’s rights, both the white and the colored
man When I visit Rochester I shah be on
my way to Boston where I hope to spend the
aHi ter with my friend Hayden, and
w i °<s3.v& Fairbanks.
F«W*» IffWi Of Um Vnk.
The Canada, Capt Harrison. arm ad
New York,<m> Seterday. Skaleftldverpoe
l?Ui ah., aad brings dales from Loo
4s« ta tba lfltk, and fro* Paris ta the 13th
Esoland The chief subject of inter*
during tka weak, sssbm ta have bees the ex
j aeatias of Aa Msasiags for the reorder
i O’Connor Tka Laudas journal* give ret
particular aeaaaata of tka legalixed tragedy
Every modest attending tka horrid prepara
tione, both in and without tka jail, is record*
silk great ■iautaaew. Manning made
ronfaaaion tka day kafore hie execuiiee-
Eech of the prisoners manifested great annat
to learn tka d—asnnr sad cosdtrios of tki
other; pet aiming coatisoslly is mutual crimi
•ariose. Jam before dm eaacutioa, Mia
Maaning was iniroducad, and took a asat
the am keocb with her huaband, wbat
Manning, is a mom imploring aeoast, mid,
hops jos sis sot going to dopsrt this lifo will
foehnga of mriaaoaitj towards am." Tka ap
paal was tea mack for his guilty partner, aw
leasing towards him. aka aaid, “I have nc
animosity towards yoo."
The account from which we copy goes oc
ta my, "The reverend chaplain hare entered
in kin token, and, having taken his place m
the altar, he administered the sacrament u
both the convicts. At its dom the wretched
pah were petmitted to meet again. Manoini
embraced his wife with great fervor, and aaid,
‘Qod blam you, l hope wo shall meet ir
Umvon. His wife raturnsd his embrace and
sobbed audibly."
Not lorn than 50,000 persons were present
at 'the execution, and the moat disgraceful
scenes ware enacted. A female was killed
by the pressure of the crowd, sod two others
severely wounded Cbarlm Dickens haa
published a letter, giving his impressions on
the demoralising tendency of such exhibitions.
Thursday, the 15th, was observed as a day
of general Thanksgiving for the disappear
ance of the pestilence which had devastated
the country.
The Giselle, a large vessel t bound to Bre
men, from Wilmington, N. C., with her car
go of eighty barrels of turpentine, has been
destroyed by fire,off the Isle of Wight. The
crew ran the vessel on the sands, and imme
diately abandoned her.
Canadian Annexation is still the subject of
much newspaper comment. It is generally
viewed by the liberal papers not altogether
favorably, and yet not with much disfavor.—
Jerrold’s News, after giving a review of the.
circumstances of Canada, and the reasons for
discontent, says, "These are the evifa of an
old country, and under these evils our young
colony sullen, while in connection with us.
Are we psqpared to examioe into these evils
and remove them 1 If so, we need pay no at
tention to thf cry for annexation. If we are
not, then we may make our account with
bearing the cry incream in strength until the
tie between the mother country and the colo
ny is broken forever, and the English poor are
robbed of the heritage which the wisdom of
our forefathers provided for them on ihe oihei
aide of the Atlantic. Rivalry commences
with the forced separation. Wbat may fol
low who can tell* But it is clear that the
evils threatened may be averted by timely
care.”
The Examiner saya:—
"Annexation may probably come at last,
but assuredly, in the meanwhile, not one of
the three paitiee interested in the question is
ripe for it. The pride and prejudices of the
English nation are unquestionably against it.

As to Eogland, in our humble opinion, she
will be tbs greatest gainer of the three by
annexation. She will be relieved at once
from the heavy load of responsibility with
which ahe is now burthened in her impoesible
attempts, at the distance of 4000 miles, to
govern wisely a tree people whom her states
men never see, and of whom they know noth
ing beyond what they find recorded in sheets
of fools-cap."
We find, in the Newcastle Guardian, a very
full report of a Reform soiree, given in New
castle, to that distinguished Reformer and
friend of the slave, Geo. Thompson. In the
course of his speech, referring to the jobbing
propensities of the British Government, Mr.
Thompson said, "You have heard what the
government spend in the African blockade.—
No man will accuse ms of indifference to the
interests of the sieve, and 1 fearlessly say that a
grosser job was never perpetrated than that of
keeping up a squadron on the coast of Africt.
A million a year is spent that the Hon. Capt.
Penman and my Lord Lapdog may walk the
quarter-deck, receive pay and get blood-monej
for every man they capture on the seas."
Many who wished to attend this soiree,
were unable to gain admittance and on re
quest, Mr. Thompson spoke at a second meet
ing held a few day* after, which was alsc
densely crowded.
We should like to copy the entire speed:
of Mr. Thompson, on this occasion, for th<
benefit of the Homestead Journal, and a mar
by the name of William Hick, who, for somt
weeks past, through the columns of that pa
per, has been making himself exceedingly ri
diculous, by accusing Mr. Thompson of indif
ference to the cause of the laboring classes.—
r William Hick can be excused only on th<
supposition that be speaks ignorantly. It ii
1 a great pity that som* men do not know thi
extent of their ignorance. It would save mud
time, if evary one would talk only on subject:
i upon which ha has taksn the trouble to inforn
himself. Such lamentable exhibition* of lgno
oocc and arrogance combined, as those pie
tooted by that individual, would then be o
much more rare occuirence. Every one wb
knows my thing at all about the matter mas
be ready to assert that George Thompson i
not only the foetid of the alave and the enem;
I of chattel slavery; hot the friend of man uni
i veraally—the fearless and unflinching adrer
t aary of ail oppression
i We also find, in the seme paper,an aceoua
t of a meeting bald in Newcastle, for the pur
poet of presenting aa address to Mr. Hutt
g. p. t “expressive of thanks to him for hi
T eewieee in oonnemoo with the final extinct ua
iof the Sieve Trade." The add re* afina
I that tka traftc is African slaves can new k
extinguiaked by mare physical force, tha
««ea the central y, while merchant* and plant
•to bold oet the temptation of large prices fo
human beings, the trafie in slaves will corun
oe, in spite of fleet* and armament*.
r Mr Hun, m raply lo Add** spoke o
U» impolicy of tko Afrieu bloohdo.
gave the opini— ef eevcral etaiaam men again*
it, especially that of Chartoa Hotbam
who, after bating haa® «■!•t* I*u 1 u onmnaadti
of tha British on the AMeanesafl
for three nm, when ntiiwJ before the
coratnitieee of both Hooaeeof Pttbunnt mti,
“be agreed with tbe Duke of Wellington ul
Six Powell Bruton that nor enlj van tbe
squadron unable to pet down the aim trade,
but that it bad no tendency to pet it down
that tbe extent of tbe alave trade depan da not
on boatile argument*, bet on tbe demand lor
ala** labor;” and be added, that it behoved
tbe Britiah Legislature to consider bow tbe
character of tbit demand bad bean ereatad, to
expand tbn energies, resources, character,
and honor of England in ir artless attempts to
atop an irresistible supply.
Mr. Halt announced baa iatenttoo at an
early period of next aeeajoo to submit to tbe
Hoose of Commons a motion, by which the
deliberate opinion of that assembly will bn
pronounced upon tbe subject.
We need scarcely cay, that although we
are not quite certain that tbe blockade of tbe
African coast baa been altogether ineffectual
in checking tbe slave trade, or at leant in mo
deling that inhuman traffic less profitable, we
yet consider tbe blockade not only impolitic,
but entirely wrong in principle. Much might
be*urged against it, on the ground of inexpe
diency. It bas been found that one and per
haps tbe chief effect of the blockade baa bees,
to increase the horrors of the Middle psssege.
The wretched portions of humanity engaged
in tbe traffic, entirely regardless of the suffer
ings of their victims, now sacrifice every thing
to speed. They employ small vmeels, and
cram large numbers into a apace wholly inad
equate for their reception. More suffering
and death are the consequence. We hare no
faith in anything but the destruction of slave
ry, for the overthrow of tbe slave-trade. Cut
up the tree from tbe root, and its branches of
course perish. We entreat England to con
tinue to exert ber great moral influence in be
half of the seven millions of the oppressed
children of Africa, now in bondage. We en
treat her also, by her treatment of colored
men in Britain, to show to negro-hating Ame
ricana the absurdity and wickedness of that
prejudice, which dooms men to degradation
on account of their color. In this way, Eng
land can, and we feel persuaded will do much
for the elevation both of the slave and of the
nominally free colored man in this country.
France. —Mr. Rives, the American Minis
ter, presented his credentials on tbe Bth ult.,
and was cordially received. Tbe Pouaain
difficulty is all smtolhed over, and is to be
forgotten.
There are rumors afloat with respect to the
vacant poet of Foreign Ministers. M. de Ray
nerval’s refusal, it appears, ia not quite cer
tain.
Rome. —From Rome there is nothing inter
esting. The Pope, it is said, really meditates
an early return to Rome, and indeed his arri
val at one moment was actually announced, i
Turkey. —Kossuth issued the following
proclamation to the Hungarian refugees, on
the 18th of Oct. He signed himself “Gover
nor of Hungary.”
“I hereby make known the official dfclaia
tion of his excellency the Pacha.
“1. That his Majesty, the Sultan, whom
may God grant a long life, baa determined
that he will not give up to the enemy any who
wish to remain but that he will protect us,
and afford us the rights of hospitality.
“2. Those who wish to partake of tboee
rights of hospitality for the future, shall be
supplied, not only with food as hitherto, but
also with articles of clothing; nay, even in
regard to their pay, they may expect that in
demnity which is compatible with the glory
and renown of his Majesty the Sultan. The
hope is also held out that the officers may re
tain their rank, and without being compelled
to change their religion, enter the Turkish
service, and that it is contemplated to secure
the destiny of all the emigrants, either by the
formation of a colony, or in some other suita
ble manner.”
The valedictory add less of Kossuth to his
countrymen, written at Oraova, has been pub
lished. This address is highly poetical. It
will be found in another column.
Srain. —The session of the Cories has
been opened without the customary speech,
which has given rise to animated attacks of
M. Olezaga and his friends against their im
placable enemies, Narvaez and his colleagues.
The Scalpel, for November, is before us.
The London Lancet, the well known organ
of medical orthodoxy in England, has strange
ly enough, thought proper to give a long and
favorable notice of this magazine. This af
fords a capital opportunity for the editor, in
the present number, to make out a case against
his unsociable brethren in New York. The
republishers of the Lancet in that city, it
seems, did not dare to leave out this notice,
offensive as it was to the “Academy of
Science but added a note, intimating that
the reviewer in the Lancet, did not know the
status of the Scalpel or its editor, or he might
have thought differently. Mr. Dixon has got
4>e Faculty in a bad place. How will they
get out This number of the Scalpel fully
equals its predecessors in clearness and point.
The Magazine must be usefnl, if not in es
tablishing a new and good system of medicine,
at all events, in exposing the many errors and
absurdities of the old. Amongst the contents
of this number, are, an article on Contagious
and lnfectioua Diseases, Quarantine Abates;
Sketches of New York Physicians Calo
mel, by a Medical Heretic, dtc., tie.
New GaacrEirsEße Water Cure Repor
ter. —'The November number of this Hydro
pathic advocate is on our table. It contains
mauv good things against dosing sod drag
ging and gives several cases of core by the
Hydropathic system. It is published st Uti
ca, NY.
Mormon |Polysamv. —A person writing
from the Salt Lake, says “The Mermeee
ere a community in themselves—are governed
by a President and Council—they make their
own laws and regulations. They allow a man
as many wives is he can support; some have
one, and some have twenty wives. Some
young men content themselves with five
wives.
Foiled.— The trial of James M’Masters,
for harboring a runaway slave, came up before
tbe l S. Circuit Court at Pittsburgh, lest
week, which resulted in the nequiusl of the
defendant end the peynmot of the cants hr
the slave hosier— amounting, probably, to
1000. Rntbei deer bust ness. The Puts*
burgh papers speak well of Judge Ctter on
thnooensMS, and main that in b» sham*
the Jarv bn “tanned to mersy's side.” This
Shows that the
helm, in the cane of Dr. Mitchell, has had n
aduiaty dfcct. We observe that Mrs. 8.
was s witnesses the raoest trial; tad harnp
pesranencodd net fcil to rncnl to the Judge’s
inwdlection the a—thing rshaka she admmin-
SnrLmimwy.
Notices. 1
TM Kmcaiive Cnaaiiiii
Of lbs Western New York Auti-Slaveri
Society art requested to asst «t the boas a
Isaac Post, 96 Sophia street, oo Saturday
evening, Dec. 6, at 7 o’clock panel mil jp.
JOHN DICK, Sbs'f.
Tk Rochester Aaaaal Meeting.
The Westeta N. Y. AnhSlway Sonetj,
will hold their annual meeting on the oth aai
9th of January in the city of Rochester,
which oar friends tn the e*ty tod country an
earnestly invited to aneod. We fed that the
injunction “neglect not the sasetabling ol
yourselves ought most faithful*
1 1; to be adhered to, remembering it mby uni
ted efforts that the bonds of the fettered slare
must be brokeo. We know that the laborers m
the great work of reform ate comparatively
few i but, “Truth is mighty,” sad we are
encouraged ut believing “that the day of re
demption drawetb nigh an we are return!
that the faithfulness of the few tried and devo
ted friends of freedom hss already sundered
the chains and set at liberty many a despon
ding captive, and the reflection stimulates us
to a greater devotedness, knowing full well
that the corrupting and demoralizing effects
of slavery on our white as well as our colored
brothers and listen, call loudly and impera
tively upon our holiest feelings, for energetic
action, while opportunity is yet afforded.
Considering the disabilities we an laboring
under, and the apathy of the mass around ns,
on this vitally interesting subject, much ha*
been done in these pans during the past year;
but a steady, petsevering, uncompromising
devotioo is indispensable, and we hope that
while we labor with untiring zeal to stnke at
the root of this infernal system, we shall re
member that bursting the falters should be
followed by the genial influences of sympa
thy and elevation, and, that during our delib
erations some suggestions may be made with
regard to devising means to place the escaped
bondmen in situations in which their long
buried intellect, their manhood shall be called
out, that they may be prepared to receive the
truth that they may be recipients of God’s
love, and thus be enabled to enjoy the boon of
liberty, of which they have so long been rob
bed. We again say to our friends far and
tear, Come op to our annual gathering, where
}y a free and spontaneous interchange of sen
timent, we may scatter seed that will eventu
tlly yield a rich harvest.
Frederick Douglass will be present, and
ipeakers from abroad will be invited to at
tend.
SARAH D. FISH, Cor. Sec'y.
Rochester, Nov. 19th 1849.
Western New York Annual Anti-Slave
ry Fair at Rochester.
This fair will be opened the 10th of Janu
iry next, instead of December, as has been
>eforecontemplated and published. The post
ponement will doubtless meet the approval of
ill concerned. We shall need more time for
preparation, as the old articles are nearly all
lisposed of, and this year we must have an
jntire new stock. We hope there are already
nany sewing circles formed in different parts,
who sre zealously engaged in making up the
jreat variety of useful and beautiful articles,
that are usually presented at out fair. Wc
tsk every abolitionist, and every friend of the
pause in this State especially, as well as
friends in every other State, to feel themselves
bound to be represented, either personally or
»y donation, at the Rochester Fair. Let none
feel themselves excused from laboring earnest
ly to make this Anti-Slavery Fair worthy of
the cause.
Some of our warm-hearted European friends,
have already prepared and forwarded a box of
articles to aid us in this movement. Truly,
their disinterestedness and devotedness ought
to tinge every slaveholder’s cheek with shame
—stir every northern abettor’s heart with re
morse, and stimulate every abolitionist to
double zeal. The North Star we intend to
sustain, and we ask the zealous co-operation
of our friends in so doing. Lectures are much
needed, and in this section of the State mere
is a wide field for profitable exertion.
Seed diligently sown will yield a hundred
or a thousand fold, and the bread of troth cast
upon the waters will return after many days.
The personal attendance of anti-slavery friends
at the fair is earnestly solicited, and confident
ly anticipated, and we trust that we shall be
able to make it more worthy the patronage of
the community than any that has preceded it.
On behalf of the Fair Committee,
AMY POST
Appeal of the Philadelphia Association
The*'Womeu’s Association of Philadel
phia” appeal to a benevolent public, and to
the friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star V
To those who are familiar with the pages of
this paper it is unnecesery to speak of its
merit. To those who have not seen it we
may say, that we regard it as one of the very
best inti-slavery instrumentalities now in the
field.
We sre the more interested in it, beeaoae
the editor is one of our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified by his talents and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a paper devoted to oar eleva
tion. We believe sod treat that oar friaads
will give os their Übmnl aid.
To oar own people we look earnestly ank
hopefully. Skiers, Brothers, shall we lood
in vain’ Tbe iron has acred into your souls
Ye go heavily, bowed dew* u» the very dost,
dispirited, crashed by tbe weight of oppres
sZ Ye hear the tanetsof tbe enemy,
The,
are jrekms of ooe other! Yes, they unit*
but itkeelf to pat down~e who is more
intellectual than thenuw*” Prove by tbe
unerring !aog«»ge of coodoet that them as
sertions so often thrown to oar fanes ore ms*
licioas slsoders. Sewoui F. Douglass, be-
CM* his talents and ootreet ptweipleo de
mand your respect and confidence. Sustain
him because it isright to do so, and because
of the sweet peace the performance of on wot
thy an actios will asouredly bong «l «°u> yom
b °TM Fa«r will be held os Christmas week
Doeauoa far k may he sort lo
HARRIET SMITH, AM Lombard strum
RACHEL LLOYD. 963 Piamstieei,
AMY M- CASSEY .JIM Lombard-sweet
Or to as, member of tbs Amocwunu.
EwaAsrr* Ares, Lrota Ami Brant*
Mast Paorerr, Hrrrv Bvas,
Locisa Betsraa* J°ux*os,
Barts Barn*. Emm Joua.
CsAUOTTt Mills.
SARAH M DQCGLASS, Cor, Sa*y
No 54 Matthew yfn
Philadelphia, 6th 1846,
-r
iflkwti lamfmMriM hi lamM
K«w JiagiMwtCK. -Anj
•lie hair
sad rlbr»wm)trmm\w iite*lw^tmbw^ciM|
with the cardini HfmJrf —»of A* hot physs*
dangenm, end co^te
resorted to Mr S. L. rdby »the age* in tfcie
"Wm('ifilM. n
ifwlk!3t,JnhnUtii,Oa 17, IMS
Fro® tbs Evcaiac Mirror, K. T. March MIMt.
WLSTAR’S EALSAM.—We rapid the Will
CherrrtneaioM of Meth own phyeicieas.»
sort uMbeud ft—risen ofthe hnt; far sis **mad»
cel gnm*’ bu tattered ihc nMtrisgs —A anted Me
fires of themende. TheMaaa yperii by Mr.
M istar is sjwn isd perfectly ralhtbie ptyttse
ef the rod Charty MWhf m
r sue “bed um.” We ml i laddsariy aad
strongly ie firm Wring witnaaaed itt
otter nreseriouoaa bed stoirf at no dhcU
JW^SeTlrfm^Slplll BUTTS o* the
TSlki, Post It WitLU;aad also by W«*
PIT«IS.
Tn Halv iui sotsmT#t»*-fc.ate.
—Sir: Pbaea send by the beerereeew e|pb«
your Horse Medicieee. They are the heetort idee
of the kiwi that I hateeter seed, nemr hartag beea
disappointed ia tbeir adset, aa (I here beee ta toe
1 oee of other, eree the moot celebrated Oietmetl
Liniments, Ae ,of the day. I like my nch thie
feature ia than, rim: that they do all that ie premie*
ed, aad upon a theroafh trial, oh ie constraieed to
add, that “half haa net been told.
ReepeetfoHr, M. DUDLEY.
Fax Riser, Jane IS, 184$.
fjO* See Agents’ names at the bead of Sloan’s
Column. For farther particulars aad leatimoaiale,
get pamphlets of scents.
Juan Placido
[Our readers will recollect the ac
count given through the papers in 1844
of an intended insurrection of slave
iu Cuba. Many may not he aware tha
the leader of that revolt was a ‘.Yrgr
and a Man,’ one worthy to be ranke<
with George Washington or any othe
hero. We have made the followinj
extracts from Whittier’s 'Stranger i
believing it will be interestiuj
to most of our readers. We regret wi
have not room to give the articli
entire. J
1 have recently been deeply iuteres
ted in the late of Placiilo —the blacl
Revolutionist of Cuba—the acknow
iedged leader of the late widc-sprtac
and well-planned revolt of the slavsi
iu the city of Havana, and ihu neigh
boring plantations and villages
Juan Placido waa born a slave ot
the estate of Don Terribio de Castro
His father was an African, Ins mothei
a mulatto His mistress treated hiir
with gieat kindness, and taught him tc
read. When he was twelve years u
age she died, and he fell into other ant
less compassionate hands. At the agt
of eighteen, on seeing his uiothei
struck with a heavy whip, he for tin
first time turned upou his tormentors
To use his own words, I felt the blou
in my heart. To utter a loud cry, am
from a downcast boy with the tiimditj
of one meek as a lamb, to become al
at once tike a iaging lion, was a thinf
of a moment He was, however, sub
tilled, and the next morning, togethei
with Ins mother, a lemlerly-nurturei
and delicate woman, severely scour
ged On seeing lus mother rude I j
stripped and thrown down upon tin
ground, he at first with tears itnplorec
the overseer to spare her; hut at th«
sound of the first blow, as it cut intc
her linked flesh, be sprang once more
apon the ruffian, who, having supenoi
strength', heat him until he whs nearei
osad than alive.
After suffering all the Hciaeiludee of
•JaFery— hoMf**. nakedrt**, ttripea;
after bravely etui ably bearing up
■gainst that alow, dreadful process
which reduces the wan W a thing—the 1
image of God to a piece of mercban-
dir.e, until he had lift chad his thirty* i
eighth year, ha was unexpectedly re
leased from hie bonds. Some literary
gentleman in Havana, into whose hands
two or three pieces of his composition
had fallen, struck with the vigor, spirit
snd natural grace which they manifes
ted. sought out the author, and raised
a subscription to purchase his freedom.
He came to Havana, and maintained
himself hy house painting and such
j other employments as bis ingenuity mid
talents placed within his reach. He
wrote several poems, which have keen
published in Spanish at Havana, and
translated by Dr. Madden, under the
title of ‘Poeraa hy a Slave.*
It is not too much to aay of these
poems, that they will hear a compari
son with most of tbe productions of
modern Spanish literature. Certain it
is, that their author is the only Cuban
poet. His style is bold, free, ener*
1 getic. Some of bis pieces are sportive
i and graceful; such is his address to
‘The Cucura,’ or Cuban fire-fly.
a t r 0
Some of his devotional pieces evince
the fervor and true feeling of the
Christian poet. His ‘Ode to Religion*
contains many admirable lines.—Speak
ing of the martyrs of the early days of
i Christianity, he says finely:
Still in that cradle, purpled with their blood,
Tbe iatari Faith waxed euonger Aiy by day.’
I cannot forbear quoting the last
stanza of this poem:
•O God of mercy, throoed in glorv high,
On earth and all its misery loot down,
Behold the wretched, hear the captive** rry
And call thy exiled children remind ihy throne'
There would 1 fain in contemplation gate
On thy eternal beauty and would make
Of love one hitting canticle of praise,
And every theme hut Thee henceforth forsake!’
e
Tbe disastrous result of tfie late in
surrection of the slaves in Cuba is
well known. Betrayed, and driven
into premature collision with their op
pressors, the w ronged and maddened
bondmen were speedily crushed into
subjection Placido was arrested, and
after a long hearing, was coadetnned to
be executed, and consigned to the
‘Chapel of the Condemned.’
How far Placido was implicated in
1 the insurrectionary movement, it is
I now perhaps impossible to ascertain.
The* popular voice at Havana pro
nounced him its leader and projector;
and as such he wa9 condemned. His
own bitter wrong; the terrible recollec
tions of his f life of servitude; the im
punity with which the mo9t dreadful
outrages upon the persons of slaves
were indicted, —acting upon a mind
fully capable of appreciating the beau
ty of "Freedom, furnished abundant in
centive to an effort for the redemption
of his race, and the humiliation of his
l oppressors. The Heruldo, of Madrid,
speaks of him as ‘as the celebrated
poet, a man of great natural genius,
and beloved and appreciated by the
most respectable young men of Ha
ivaua.’ It accuses him of wild and
ambitious projects, and states that he
was intended to b« the chief of the
black race after they had thrown of
the yoke of bondage.
i He was executed at Havana in th<
7th month, 1844. According to th<
custom in Cuba with condemned crimi
I rials, he was conducted from prison t<
the‘Chapel of the doomed.’ He pas
sed thither with singular composure
amidst a great concourse of people
j gracefully saluting his numerous qc
1 quaintances. The Chapel was hunj
with black cloth, dimly lighted. Placi
do was seated beside bis coffin. Priest
in long black robes stood around him
chanting iu supulchral voices the ser
1 vice of the dead. It is an ordeaj un
der which the stoutest-hearted am
most resolute have been foqnd to sink
After enduring it for twenty-four hour
he was led out to execution. Placid
come forth calm and undismayed; hold
ing a crucifix in his hand, he recited
in a loud, clear voice, a solemn praye
j in verse, which he had composedamidi
t the horrors of the ‘Chapel.’ It thrill©
upon the hearts of all who heard it.
_; am indebted to a friend for assistanc
in rendering this remarkable prayer in
to English verse:
i PRAYER OF PLACIDO.
Gtxl of u«tU<umied love and power eternal
To Tliee I turn iu darkness nod despair;
i Stretch forth Thine arm, aud from the brow interna
j Of Calumny the veil of Justice tear!
I And from the lorebdad of my honest fame
j Pluck the word’s brand of ioliuny and shame!
O King of kings!—my father's God! who only
Art siroag to save, by whom ia all controlled,
Who givesl the sea iu waves, tbe dark awf lonely
I I Abyss of heaven it* light, the North itsesid,
1 The air its currents, the warm win iu beams,*
Life to the dowers. and motion to the streams:
1 All things obey Thee; dying or reviving,
r As Thou i cmxnaudeat; all, apart from Thee,
From Thee alone their life and power deriving,
Sink and are lost in vast eternity!
t Vet d th the void obey Thee; since from nought
r! This marvellous being by Thy hand vra« wrought f
i O metcilul God'—l r-anuet shun thy presence,
For through us veil of fteeh I’hy piercing eye
Lookerh upon my spirit’suneodad essence,
As through die pure transparence of the sky;
Let not the oppressor dap bis bloody hands,
As o’er my prostrate innocence be stands
But, if six*, it seeweth good unto Thee
Thai 1 should perish as the guilty dies,
That, a cold, mangled corse, nn loss should view m
With hateful malice and exulting eyes,
Sp’-ak Thou the word, and bid them shed my blood
J Fully tu me Thy will be done, O God!
On arriving at th© fatal spot, he aa
j down as ordered, on a bench with hit
1 back to the soldiers. Tbe muHituds
recollected, that in some affecting
liues, written by the conspirator ti
prison, he had said that it would b<
useless to seek to kill him by shooting
his body—that him heart must be pier
ced erqpit would cease its throbbing*
At th© last moment, just aa the aoldten
were about to fire, he rose up au
i gazed for an instant around and abovi
him, on the beautiful capita) of hie na
live laud, aud its sail-flecked bay, m
the druse crowda about him, the kku
mountains in the distance, and the skj
glorious with the summer sunshine
Adtos mundo (Farewell w<Artdr) hi
said calmly, aud sat down. The wort
j was given, and five balls entered hi)
(body. Then it was, tint, amidat Ikl
groans aud murmurs of the horror
sirtekeu spectators, be roes up one«
1 more, and turned his bead tp the ©bud
deriug soldiers, hie face weanag ai
expression of superhuman courage
‘Will no one pity me*’ be said, lajruq
his hand over hta heart ‘Here, fin
here!* While he yet spake, two balk

entered nte hem, im be W 1 deed.
SroMfißßgaai
and hie iterate death rrili doubtless be
regarded by bis race u precious te
gacie*. To Ihe great name* ofl»*Ouver
tere end Petiod ibe catered awn can
now add tint of JfanPlncido.
J i
KIfOLKY OFBVMIKCi fiIBBN
Few things shew the tenacity with
which wa cling, even alter the ctearaat
demonstration that each is the troth, to
antiquated error, than the fact that
there are many iadieiduala, at tha
present day, who religiously belieirc,
and, what is worse, so far as regards
the comfort of themselves and families,
practice the doctrine, that green wood
for fool is better, and of course mote
economical than dry.—We think the
present season one most admirably
adapted to cure such an error as we
conceive this opinion to be; end now,
white the farms# is suffering with cold
fingers from his green wood fire, end
he ts in good earnest lamenting the
leanness of his wood yard, we would
request him candidly to renew the
whole subject, and ask himself whether
he bad not better desert a position
which sound theory and daily ex
perience show is so longer tenable.
The direct experiments of Dr. Black
on file!, and the later ones of Count
Rum ford, as to the best mode of produc
ing and economizing heat, have in con
junction with the labors of others, de
monstrated the very great loss those
sustain who use unseasoned wood for
the purpose of fuel. Making an esti
mate of the various kinds of green
wood, hard and soft together, and of
the same wood when thoroughly sea
soned by exposure to the air, the dif
ference is found to be equal to at least
one third of the whole; and if dried at
a temperature of one hundred, the
difference will exceed this proportion.,
—Green wood, therefore, contains at
least one third of its weight of water,
and allowing a cord of such wood to
weigh three thousand pounds, there
will be one ton of wood and half a ton
of water in every cord. That the wood
will not burn so long as this water is
present in the wood, all will admit; it
must therefore be evaporated or driven
off in the form of steam; or, in other
werds, caloric, or heat enough from
other sources, must be combined with
the water to boil away half a ton, Qf
about one hundred and twenty gallons,
and as this heat mostly passes off in a
latent stale, no possible benefit is de
rived from so great a waste.
The amount of dry fuel necessary to
perform this operation of boiling away
half a ton of water every farmer can
estimate for himself, and we think no
one can avoid Seeing that whatever this
amount may be, it is a total loss to
himself. It is true, as many argue,
that the consumption of a green stick
of wood is less rapid than that of a dry
1 one; but such forget, it seems, that a
much larger quantity must be constant
ly kept on the fire to produce the same
degree of heat;and that until the green
I wood has absorbed from other sources
sufficient heat to expel the water with
which it is charged, the tire is dull and
r the heat feeble; there is abundance of
smoke, but combustion goes on slowly.
i or not at all.
e Since the fact of the difference be
tween the weight of dry and green
wood as stated above is indisputable,
we think that those who have
erahte quantities of wood to move
would do well to bear this in mind, as
by attending to this circumstance, a
l very great diminution in the amount
of labor requited may be made; and
9 the striking off the transportation ol
thirty-three tone iu one hundred, all
will agree, is no trifling affair. Tu
labor is honorable; but it is tiiqe opt
3 farmers should learn that to expend il
needlessly is not profitable. —Gentset
i farmer.
a i
ivJB ARE ALL COWARDS IN THE
r DARK.
it A medical friend of ours who, some
j years since, visited Paris under circum-
I stances most favorable to an entree tc
a roost interesting circle—that of th«
sqrvivors and ci-devant supporters oj
the 'Empire,’—tells a capital story, at
he beard it related by the celebrated
i General Excelmans, one ofNapoleon’i
paladins. It was at a dinner party,
composed of some of the survivors ol
Waterloo, a few of their younger re
latives, and the section of an ex-king,
on a visit from his home in America,
and to whom our freind owed his intro
duction to the circle. Some question
arose about bravery, when the younger
members of the company were electri
fied to hear the venerable and heroic
j Excelmans gravely and seriously de
i dare, that men were all cowards in the
dark' The general smiled at their
expressions of dissent, remarked that
[»t was ‘very like youth.’ and proceed
jed to tell the following anecdote in sup
pact of his strange declaration:—
i ‘There was a young hot-head in the
1 emperor’s service, who, burning for
action, and his duties for the time
t affording no opportunity, at last re
solved to fight a duel, and, choosing to
construe some remark or other of an
old and superior officer into an insult,
t challenged him. The old soldier, wav
i ing all considerations of rank, agreed
i to meet the young mao, but on the fol
lowing unusual terms: The time
i should be night, the place a room,—in
I I opposite corners of which they were to
/stand. 'Hie seconds, having placed
their men, were to withdraw outside
of the door, taking the candles with
i (hem. The word should be given from
without, when be who bad the find fire
should discharge hu weapon, and the
seconds bearing the tight should im
mediately rush in.
‘These strange conditions were ac
cepted, the time arrived, and the
seconds placed the parties as agreed
upon; ‘withdrawing immediately, and
’tearing their men in the dark. Tha
word was given, the fire was heard, the
door was re-opened, and there stood
the elder of thg*|wo, bolt upright in the
corner, his adversary's ball having en
tered thq waft eo*loee ;o his head that
theesetps seemed Kate teas than teir
rsculoos
Tl was now the old soldier's turn to
fir* They were agam teft m the dark,
tha word wnsngmo given from the eut
4
(tarn, Ik ■uaik rtstod in and
found the challenger prostrate upon the
examination, it Was found, must have
killed him
•The young man waa covered with]
poafimfeft, and the seconds were over
whelming him with the expression of
their acorn, when the veteran stopped
them.
•Not so ful, ray young friends,* said
he* ‘yon will grow wiser. Where do
yon suppose f was at the first fire Oa
my bands and knees in the comer; but,
am foil I war up quicker than het
Par £»cw, Mestuurt, tee are all cotcard*
mike dark!'
It was afterwards whispered to our
friend that the story was an actual fact,
and that the elder of the parties was
no other than the brave warrior Ex
celmans himself.
Prm the Lift for the Lory.
PROVERBS.
“Much Com, much Cake.”—Turn
it into Treasury notes, then; but if £ou
use the word “coin” for the sake, of
alliteration, and intend by it money at
large, I bog leave to join issue. Let
us nave a sample of your cares, you
gentleman with the long rent-roll.—
Where be the crows-feet, the wrinkles,
the anxious look? 1 see them not. 1
hear no sighs, no sounds of discontent:
indeed, 1 think I saw a very pleasant
•mile playing above your double chin
just now when that poor old man prayed
—“God bless you as you slipped a
piece of money into his long, brown,
skinny band. It does not annoy you,
I hope, that those children of yours
have that beautiful lawn for a play
ground; would you have less anxiety if
they were displaying dirty, pale faces,
out of a third story window in Cherry
•t?—your mind easier, if that pretty
and exceedingly well dressed woman—
your wife, I presume, sir—was obliged
to leave them thus and there, to answer
the street door bell ol the aforesaid
house, making herself “decent” in her
flight, as she rushes down the dark,
narrow staircase, that she may be back
in time to prevent a catastrophe? That
tea colored barouche with the roan
horses, does not inconvenience you
much, I hope: or would you feel more
cheerful as a thirteenth, in a “Knicker
bocker?”—Be candid, and say “yes,”
if you think so.—
Don’t interrupt me—l am speakiug
to a gentleman. lam aware, sir, that
the case with you is different; so it
would be with a dog carrying a bag of
guineas round bis neck, he knowing
about as well as yourself how to spend
them; lean appreciate “much coin,
much care,” in both instances. Pray,
be at no trouble to explain; 1 have no
doubt of your aqxiety to double what
you possess—of the dreadful exercises
to which you have put your mind
(never acute save in getting and sav
ing) when you are forging some lying
excuse for not loaning a few dollars to
a man, who in former days was your
friend and benefactor—of your care,
when you are reading the answer in
chancery, prepared by your lawyer, to
a bill charging you with having obtain
ed the “coin” fraudulently;—of your
care lest the person to whom you have
made over your property, for reasons
best known to yourself, should refuse
to re-assign;—of your care to make a
vulgar display of your ill-gotten wealth,
when you think there will be no calls
on your “generosity,” and your as
great care to conceal it, and plead
poverty, on the approach of distress
claiming sympathy sympathy from
you, with your “much coin, much
care,” in your mean mouth.
Sir, as a certain writer ofa dictiona
ry would have said, (you would be
none the wiser were l to tell you his
name,) Sir, let me hear no more of
l “much coin, much care.”
“The early bird catches the worm”
—i» V®ry taking sort of maxim with
those who forget that the latter, in all
insect probability, may be making the
experiment of some entomological apo
thegm of a similar tendency, handed
down from grub to grasshopper, and
though down in the mouth by the un
happy result, must meet his fate with
proverbial philosophy, cynsoled by the
Jljuf that be is literally “Rising with the
It is notorious that xll proverbs of
the “early to bed and early to rise
school,” meet with but a frosty recep
tion. “He was up betimes, who found
the parse of gbld. said the father to
his sleepy-headed boy. ‘‘Ay, father,”
replied the sen, “hut he was up before,
who lost it.”
Lynching in Arkansas —A negro
named Alph, who murdered Mr. James
Anderson of Crawford county, Arkan
sas, lately, was captured and taken to
Bentonville on the 15th ult. where by a
i vote of the persons present it was re
solved to hang him without trial, and
the unfortunate man was executed on
the 20th. He confessed his guilt on
the scaffold, bat pointed nut a white
man in the crowd who had instigated
him to the crime.
-in.
The Largest Diamond. —The Het
says: “It is reported that there has
been recently discovered among the
ruins of the Castle of Chains (Haut-
Vienne) in France, a diamond six
times larger than the one known as the
‘Regent,’ valued at three millions ol
dollars. Richard Occur de Leon waa
before this Castle, mod the discovery
of the jewel substantiates the statement
of tbe chronicler, that the prince was j
attracted beneath the walls in the hope
of obtaining a concealed treasure
Division of the Forenoon in Eliza
beth** Reign. —“We wake at hr and
look about ui, that's eye-hour ;at sev
en are should prajr, that’s knee-hour;
at eight walk, that's lag-hour; at him
gather flowers and phick a rose, that's
Baas hour; at tea are drink, that's*
■oath-hour; at efevna lay shoot us for 1
victuals, that's hand-hour; at twelve,
goto dimer, that's bellv-hour.—Mid
die** ami Changeling
y
Ho meats* e EasMmoa. —‘'The
House of Assembly in Vermont, by a
rate of 145 lo>4B have passed a bill ex
•aiftiag the homestead from sale under
An execution.