this sacred anniversary—whose eve
ry return proves more conclusively
that principle and policy are one and
inseparable-—is tho fitting occasion tor
flinging to tho breeze the
anti-slavery flag.
it would be a pleasure to speak of
thd triumphant progress of emaneipa-
tion in the english v\ est india islands,
and to bear a tribute of honor to the
successful ehurts ot our colored coun
trymen to assume their rightful position,
industrially, socially, religiously in the
free states of the union. but the
urgency of the times presents other
topics. the end of this article is sim
ply to take ground on the question of
slavery extension, now’ forced upon the
people of this nation, and to open one
plain path of political duty.
facts and probabilities.
the pouring in ot a flood ot treemen
upon california —the professed desire
of the administration to devolve upon
citizens already there the responsibility
of forming institutions for the new state
—the growing expectation that this state
will apply to congress, next winter, for
admission to the union—the action ot
mr. ciav, mr. benton, and other lead
ing statesmen of both the great parties,
in favor of the jefferson or ilinot
proviso—the progressive development
of right principle in kentucky—the
augmenting numbers, spiril, resolution,
of the free soil parly —the seeming
trepidation of the slave power—the
manifestation of popular feeling and
purpose throughout the free states—
and the tone of the public press—are
certainly encouraging omens. and,
were it not for the incredible artifices
and successful trickery ot the past ten
years, wdiose bitter experience is tiesh
in memory, a sanguine person might be
ready to exclaim: tliank cod, the
beginning of the end has come; slavery
is shut up, and so will surely, speedily
die.”
but, on the other hand, when he
calls to inmd texas annexation and the
mexican war, whose monstrous inhu
manity this people was tempted to swal
low by the coating of gam wherewith
the poison was candied.—listens to the
insidious whisper of “cuba,” —con-
siders how easy it is to breed a litter
of pretexts for further spoliations of
mexico by the fain jus, or inlamous,
protocol and otherwise, —observes the
desperation of the slave power, pul at
bay and fighting for very life, —reflects
on the innumerable lures, bribes, in
trigues, which by correspondence and
conversation are brought {o bear upon
all expectants of political preferment—
remembers the unity of wrong and in
terest that h id* together the slavehnl
dmg oligarchy, and hie variety ot
and interests w ich distract freemen ol
the south, north and west, while one
party is strong in the prestige of ruling
by the established precedent of “divide
and conquer, and the other purty
weak trom habitot concession and
connivance—finally, when be looks the
tact luirlv in the tace that president
taylor was the slaveholders’ candidate,
and that mr. compromise clayton is
prime minister—lie canu ,t hut icel that
che hour is fraught with perils, which
which call for vigilance, courage, de
termination, such as irceinen of th.
united states have never yet exercised
probable triumph, one dares to hope,
*s on the side of justice and humanity;
and before a year is passed it may o*
the privilege of this people to congrutu
late one another on the assurance, inn.
tome atonement has been made for the
the north star.
nation’s crime of conquest and usurpa
tion, and some pledge of practical peni
tence offered to mankind by hypocritical
professors of republicanism, whose free
institutions are based upon oppression.
but let us not be sluggish, or self-con
fident; for then the tragedies 1849 will
he consummate d in a catastrophe more
dark and dreadful even than the tri
-1 urnphs of absolutism in europe—by
spreading over the once free regions of
mexico the black and bloody shroud of
slavery.
prospective policy.
if one could believe that the admin
istration are really impartial; if there
w as not ground for fearing that the du
bious phrase of general riley’s proc
lamation, several times repeated,—
“laics not inconsistent icith the consti
tution and laics of the united states
is meant to cover the slaveholding
“compromises;” if there was reason
for supposing that the people of cali
fornia would be left free to organize
their own institutions, and to apply, in
their own way, for admission to the
union; or if, in the event that such ap
plication shall be found premature next
winter, the naked question of slavery
extension or slavery limitation could be
presented to congress—the way would
be plain. then, it might be briefly
settled, that slavery shall bring its long
tolerated aggressions to an end. but
it would be childish credulity to expect
that any such simple problem will be
offered for solution. no! the slave
power knows its own weakness too
w r ell for straightforwardness—reckless,
haughty, presumptuous, though it is.
its policy will he to complicate the
question, wrap it about in a web of
constitutional sophistries, mix it up with
party issues, overlay it with all manner
of delusive projects, and hide the single
aim of slavery extension amidst specious
professions of regard for national in
terests. what pathos, indignation,
logic, paternal love of california, pro
testations of patriotism, conservative
appeals in behalf of the violated consti
tution, &.c., will the walls of both
chambers of the capitol echo, next
winter; and beneath what tons of
printed twaddle will stages, steamboats,
railroads, groan on every mail route.
true wisdom is to be prepared for
any possible crisis. are we prepared?
let us look at some of the combinations
which may be offered to the delibera
tive and decision of the people and
statesmen before six months are over:
california offers itself with a
slaveholding constitution, or what a
mounts to the some, a constitution not
positively prohibiting slavery. what
shall the party of freedom do? reject
it instantly, uncompromisingly. are
we ready for that course, with all the
consequences? before answering, let
us consider what these consequences
are.
2. congress cannot be brought to
reject such a constitution. what shall
the party of freedom do? retire, sen
ators and representatives; announce
to their respective states and constitu
encies that the union is broken; and
summon in legal modes private assem
blies of the people to form a new union
of freemen.
3. congress will not pass the anti
slavery extension proviso. what shall
the party of freedom do? declare that
the old state l will he in no way parti
cipators in the crime of slavery exten
sion over new states; call upon the
californians to preserve their free in
stitutions; and, if necessary, take mea
sures, as in the previous case, for or
ganizing a .yeic union, including cali
fornia.
4. congress accepts california with
a free constitution, or else passes the
anti-9lavery extension proviso; and one,
two, three, of the slaveholding states
nultify or secede. what shall the party
of freedom do? take them at their
word; proceed instantly to conform and
and carry out a decisive policy of sla
very limitation, and admit the self exiled
states again, only on condition of their
adopting constitutions based upon eman
cipation, equality and justice.
the simplest combinations have been
purposely presented for the end of
bringing dearly out this one thought—
that any successful attempt to extend sla
very over the territories, newly submit
ted to our guardianship, should be
treated as a virtual dissolution of
the union.
unless the party of freedom is pre
pared to take this firm ground of prin
ciple, it is to be feared—and it would
be false to hide the fear—that once
again the freemen of this nation will
find themselves cajoled, brow-beaten,
and entrapped into suicidal and criminal
subservience to the faction of a slave
bolding oligarchy, which has tyrannized
over the united slates for a half cen
tury. slavery must, on no considera
tion, be allowed a hair’s-breadth of
standing room in these new countries.
it would be fatal folly to talk of abol
ishing it if once allowed to show its head
there. let not “repeal” of slavery
extending legislation be dreamed of or
mentioned as a possibility. “the
proviso,” or a “free constitution,”
should bo the calm, unflinching, inexo
rable demand.
1 his course is the only conservative
>ne, and throws the blame of destruc
tive policy where it rightly belongs, on
(he aggressive slave-power. it is the
only righteous one according to the
acknowledged principles of our govern
ment, the religion professed by our
nation, the plain dictates of humanity,
and the law of god.
had freemen been deliberately, firmly
o>ady, at the time of the annexation of
lyxas and the mexican war, to say to
tie slave-power, put your plots in
•xecution at your peril; their consuio
nation will be held by uf to be a virtual
of the old l won, nod wc
right is of no sex—trrth is of no 001/>r—god is th# father of vs all. and all we are brethren
shall straightway summon the people to
form a new union,”—this nation never
would have been plunged upon its infa
mous career of robbery and murder.
•vote, at last, then let us be prepared.
let the people, in their primary assem
blies, let legislatures and mate con
ventions, let representatives and sena
tors in congress announce their abso
-1 lute resolve in the brief words: slarery
limitation or the mat i nion of freemen.
l__
fmm uie rinuio'liam (eng.) mercury.
i american courtesy and lib
erty.
most of our readers know the name,
1 we presume, of mr. frederick doug
j lass, the man of color, who, escaping
from slavery, published an account of
his own and his “master’s” doings du
ring his bondage under a citizen of the
“freest country in the world,” and
i afterwards traveled through our less
favored land,” giving lectures on the
state of the blacks—slaves and freed
men —of north america. probably
some of them may have heard him speak
in the town-hall here; nav, have gone
so far as to shake hands with him, and
remain seated within a few yards ol
him. do they remember any thing
strikingly unpleasant in such close con
tact with this specimen of the highest
race of monkeys?” do they think they
could possibly have taken any meal in
l his company? yve presume they will
surely say no to the one and yes to the
j other, especially after reading the fol
lowing account, received from our own
correspondent, who, be it well marked,
was on board the steamer mentioned at
the time.
on thursday, may the 24th—we like
to be particular, in order to aid the
memory of any passenger concerned in
our story—mr. frederick douglass, in
company with two english ladies, left
albany by the steamboat alida, capt.
i fred. w. strue, for new york. the
i breakfast of the party was early and
hurried, as the steamer started at 7
a. m. there w’ere many passengers
on board, chiefly americans. (we
must say we hope there were not many
englishmen.) soon after starting, a
presbyterian minister from cincinnati,
who had become acquainted with mr.
douglass the day before, joined the trio.
seeing a notice posted up—“ passe
ngers can be accommodated with meals
at any hour of the day —the ladies
wished for luncheon about 11 a. >i., but
agreed to wait, and order dinner for
four in about an hour, including coffee.
mr. douglass we#t below to order it.
the steward took the order, but noth
ing being forthcoming in half an hour,
he went again, and came back with the
news that they must yet be patient.—
about 1 p. m. a bell sounded, and forth
with the passengers all turned towards
the saloon. >lr. douglass and his
three companions descended and seated
themselves at a table spread for dinner,
but not yet furnished with guests. se
veral american gentlemen seated
themselves at the opposite end, but, on
glancing up the table, suddenly seemed
to have forgotten something, and, ri
sing, went to another.
in a few minutes, a small man came
up to mr. douglass, and, tapping him
oh the shoulder, said, y~ou mustn’t
sit here!” yy r hat did you observe?”
asked mr. d. 1 say you must n’t sit
here; you know you mustn’t. it’s
against our rules.” “against what
rules? pray who are you? for i don’t
know,” asked mr. douglass. i’m
the steward, and 1 say you mustn’t be
here.” well,” said mr. d., “show
me your rules; i should like to see
them. 1 saw it written up on the cap
tain’s office, that passengers can be
eccommodated with meals at any hour
of the day;’ i am a passenger—l’ve
paid my fare, and i wish for my dinner
now, and here.” the small dignitary
replied, “you know it’s against our
rules, and i command you to leave the
table.” and so saying, he strutted off
to fetch the captain. meantime, at two
long tables sat some forty or fifty lean,
lantern-jawed americans, “bolting”
away, and looking on—how shall we
say? down came the captain, the first
mate, the cook, and the small steward,
to drag mr. douglass forcibly from his
seat. not wishing to create more dis
turbance than was necessary to bear
testimony and protest against this con
duct, mr. douglass rose, and with his
three indignant friends went to the
stairs leading to the deck; on which
the civilized and white ameri
cans, ceasing for a moment their vora
cious repast, favored them with three
cheers and clapping of hands; where
upon one of the english ladies could
keep down the steam no longer, and,
approaching the table, said, will you
allow a lady to speak, gentlemen? yve
are english ladies;” (“more’s the
shame,” muttered a few;”) “we have
heard much in england,” continued
she, of the courtesy of the american
gentlemen. yve have now had an op
portunity of witnessing it. as english
ladies, we thank you for the demonstra
tion we have received at your hands,
and we will take care that the br tish
press shall tell of the steamboat alida
and her passenger* this day.”
yy’hen the guests came up the steps,
concluding their rapid dinner by that
elegant finale picking their teeth, some
of them showed a curiosity to see the
faces of the half-starving four. but it
they expected tears or crest-fallen looks,
tbev were disappointed; for the party
were rather iorlined just then to march
up and down the deck a little more
haughtily, and to laugh more merrily
than before.
but nature, by 4 r. m., began to as
sert her right, and the ladies felt so
faint for want of food that mr. douglass
went below again, and asked for some
coffee for them. “well, now, jnjr
friend,” §*id mr. d. f tbit ie realjjr 100
rochester. n. y., friday, august 81, 1849.
bad. we come to voa at dinner-time
and you won’t let us bave anything
and now you refuse because it is noi
dinner-time. those ladies want sotm
coffee.” well, are you to hare any?’
said the little man. why,” said ml
d., i should like some very much.’
14 yytell, yon can’t have it. who an
you? are you the servant of those
ladiesr if you are, you may taxc theni
some coffee on deck.” “ves, lam
those indies’ servant,” replied mr. i).,
but the lurking, provoking smile on his
face prevented the faith ot tne little
stewaid in this statement, and he or
dered him “off" with muttered impre
cations.
alter a while the cincinnati minister
tried his luck as messenger. but he
was not to be trusted not to give a share
to the 44 man of color,” and his errand
was vain. not having provided any
thing to eat but a few lozenges, the
four friends were not sorry when, at 7
p. m., they arrived at new york, and
left the river hudson and its steatnei
alida. may its memory be henceforth
44 intamously notorious among oui
readers, and let them all—expressing
their opinion on these and such like
occurrences how otherwise they please
—follow our example, and resolve ne
ver to dirty their feet with the dust ol
the alida, but wait, if they must go up
or down the 44 noble hudson, for the
confidence.
yve omit our correspondent’s re
marks as perfectly superfluous, and
have scarcely any words to express our
own. yy t e only vouch for the veracity
of the narrator.
lowa to old zach, greeting.—
resolccd, that the administration ol
general taylor, as far as it has pro
ceeded upon its mission, has unblush
inly falsified every promise,and gross
ly violated every pledge given before
the election by its nominal chief; and
that a party which can go before the
country upon one set of issues, and im
mediately after its installation into pow
er enter upon the practice of another
set, is more than ever deserving of the
reprobation of the world, and of the
coniinuedand uncompromising hostility
of the democratic party.
resolved, that general taylor, for
the part which he has played, or has
been made to play, in this digraceful
game of deception, has displayed a
want of honest principle, of a weak
ness of mind and character, which
equally disqualify him for the place he
holds, and fully justifies the worst pre
dictions ever made; qgainst hi* fitness
for the presidency’ and that although
we may once have admired the soldier
in the tented field, we are now reluc
tantly brought to condemn and to repu
diate the cypher in the cabinet of the
country.
from the herkimer freeman.
anniversary of british eman
cipation at worcester.
here i am, in the heart of the com
monwealth of massachusetts, at the
great passover of freedom, on the
green earth, under a golden sky. yvm.
lloyd garrison, who first agitated the
question of emancipation in this coun
try, has taken the stand. his bald
head and bright spectacles 9hine under
the glowing sun, whilst his eloquent
lips give utterance to thoughts that
have hearts in them. he reads appro
priate passages from the bible, showing
the weakness and wickedness of men
bowing their heads like a bulrush,
whilst they continue to smite with the
fist of wickedness. now' he whips the
man who whipt the mexicans. i shall
not attempt to report the speeches, for
that lady-faced, fair-headed young man
with spectacles on, who is driving a
quill yonder, is employed as a reporter,
ani he will give the addresses 4 verba
tim, et literatim, et punctuatim, et spel
latim.
after singing one of the odes which
had been printed and distributed among
the audience, charles c. burleigh, with
his long beard and flowing ringlets, as
cended the platform, and after gazing
at the throng before him for a moment,
he thrilled that vast assemblage with a
lucid and logical address, which won
the admiration of all. if this talented
reformer had more faste and less vanity
with respect to his personal appearance,
he would wield the club of a hercules
in the cause of abolition. he replied
to those who inquire why americans
celebrate the triumphs of british eman
cipationists. if you desire to know how
charmingly and beautilully he did so,
procure a copy of the proceedings of
this jovous jubilee and read his speech.
mr. garrison remarked that he pro
nounced an eulogy on the next speaker
when he announced his name—theo
dore parker. mr. parker is not an
eloquent speaker. he is an ordinary
looking man, and has a low voice. his
eyes are dull and his features coarse, but
he has a magnificent head. although
his manner is ungraceful, his matter is
glorious. those who did n«»t hear it,
and who may enjoy the intellectual
treat of reading it, w ill probably regard
it as the speech of the day. among
other good things, he said that col.
benton was a thermometer held up in
our political weather, and that it was the
heat of anti-ala very agitation that raised
his mercury so high. he said the
abolitionists had kindled a fire in the
rear of tne doughfaces of the north
sent to yy'ashington. another ode was
sung, and the meeting adjourned lor
one hour.
on my way to the hospital grove this
afternoon, i heard one ot the lemale
inmates of the asylum for the insane
making loud lamentations. 1 looked,
but could not see her; i listened, but
coaid not lesrn the cause of her trouble.
at the meeting again. adin ballou
is making a musical speech, which con
siais mainly in rephe* io the response
of men in the crowd whoee heart* are
brimful! of humanity. he took for his
text an imaginary proclamation which
is to be sent to the president of the
tinted states.
wendell phillips, having been called
for, came forward, and although evi
dently laboring under bodily indisposi
tion, made, as he always docs, an
effe tive and eloquent speech. he
alluded most beautifully to wilber
force's ascending to heaven, bearing in
his hands the fragments of a million ot
broken fetters, affording proof that he
was at hi 9 master's work during his
sojourn on the earth. when mr. phil
lips mounted the rostrum, i overheard
some ladies observe, he is a hand
some man.” they spoke the truth,
and exhibited good taste. he is not a
band-box beauty, gloved, brushed and
perfumed. he is not a parisian dandy,
with mustache and imperial. he is
what may be termed an intellectual
man, bearing on his form and face the
impress of manly beauty and unfalter
ing integrity. he furnished his hearers
with an eloquent history of emancipa
tion in the west india islands—after
which,
ralph waldo emerson came forward.
he is an indifferent speaker,—hesita
ting, stammering and stumbling through
a disconnected speech like a drunken
man in the dark. he is ali intellect,
but cannot make an improptu speech.
read his essays, and there you will find
glowing eloquence, thrilling poetry,
and mighty thoughts, clad in a rich
regalia of language. mr. emerson
appeared to great disadvantage, be
cause he was afflicted with a hoarse
cold, and follwed phillips oi america,
who is not excelled by phillips of ire
land.
a white man, with a tinge of african
blood in his veins, was next called tc
the stand, so that the people present
might see what kind of slaves they have
south. his eyes are blue, his hair
straight, his complexion fairer than that
of many europeans; in fact, he escaped
from bondage in company with a white
man, none mistrusting that he was a
southern man with northern princi
ples. g. w. b.
august 7, 1849.
from tlie pratiral christian.
the celebration of british west in
dia emancipation, and observance oi
general taylor’s fast went off well.
the abolitionists mustered in clusters
which seemed a pretty conclusive ref
utation of the fib that jthey are 'dying
out. the multitude assembled in hos
pital grove, where at half past ten
o’clock, a. m. the meeting was organ
lzed by choosing win. lloyd garrison
president. seven vice presidents anti
three secretaries completed the organ
ization. richard s. edes of bolton
offered prayer. garrison then read and
commented on taylor’s proclamation,
and also that of gov. briggs. he then
read appropriate portions of the scrip
ture from matthew’3 gospel, and from
the books of isaiah and jeremiah. sing
ing followed, led by the friends from
hopedale. letters from gentlemen
invited to attend, but who could not
convenintly do so, were next read, viz:
from john g. palfrey, charles sum
ner and parker pillsbury. father
matthew neither attended nor excused
himself by letter. it apnenrs from
credible testimony, given on the occa
sion, that this distinguished friar,
though a great abolitionist three thou
sand miles off, in old ireland, ignores
the whole anti-slavery agitation here in
this land of slaveholders. he expects
to go among them and be their guest,
as the apostle of teetotalism, and a
genuine catholic priest. therefore he
is determined to know nothing amongst
us but temperance and the catholic re
ligion. his conduct in this matter re
veals such a want of uncompromising
moral principle, such unmanly narrow
ness of philanthropic feeling, and such
calculating servility to the oro-slavery
of the land,that true-hearted abolition
ists must turn awav from him with sor
rowful disgust. happily they are vet
eran teetotalers, and do not need either
his pledge, medal or benediction. and
as to his popery, most of them can do
without that. for our own part, we
should despise ourselves to be caught
doing homage, either in public or pri
vate, even to the temperance pre-emi
nence of such a man. to be sure he
was under na obligation to go to the
worcester meeting; but he was under
the highest moral obligations to declare
the same hostility to slavery on this
side of the atlantic that he had on the
other. is there no end to this genera
tion of time-servers and popularity
seekers! it is well that there are tests
whereby the essence of men’s moral
principles can be ascertained. but let
the prudent friar husband his iniiuence
and fame in his own way; the world
will go forward to a hopeful maturity.
just as we had written to this point,
the chronotype of the 15th came to
hand, with an elaborate editorial leader
panegyrizing matthew’s conduct, and
denouncing garrison as a man who
does not care **the value of a copper
cent for the cause of freedom or tem
perance, except so far as it will build
up his own fame.” we have nothing
more to say of this article at present
than that, in relation to both parties, it
is the most reptile-like of any tiling we
ever read in the chronotype.
but to return. numerous addresses
from devoted friends of the aati-sla
very cause were delivered, forenoon
and afternoon, interspersed with appro
priate songs by the singers. mr. park
hurst, the celebrated phonographic re
porter, was in attendance,and we un
derstand most of the remarks made on
the occasion are soen to be published
in the liberator. if toy portion of the
american people observed president
zachary’s fast acceptably to god or
beneficially to man, it was dooe by this
f anti-slavery mass meeting. its whole
some fruits will be seen and acknowl
edged in the good time coming-’
speech of theodore parker.
sir kohcrt feci, in a speech which
i he has recently made, widely read in
england, and more widely here, has
declared that he has no faith in disin*
terested philanthropy. mr. palfrey,
in his letter, alluded to some gentle
men,—perhaps not present, who,in the
anti-slavery enterprise, spent a sum a*
great as they spent on their own fami
lies every year. i take it, those mer
believe in disinterested philanthropy
i hope there is not a men before m<
that does n*»t believe in it;l know tbert
is not a woman. (applause.)
w e have come here, to-day, to cotn
memorate one of the most remarkable
acts of disinterested philanthropy, evei
performed by a nation; an act of whole*
jiy disinterested philanthropy of plain
justice,which is only philanthropy in
short. of that i need not speak 1
have sometimes thought that anti-sla
very men,while they eulogised england
on the one hand, and while they spoke
reproachfully of america on the other,
a little over-rated the anti-slavery feel
ing there.
1 would not speak willingly with dis
respect of our mother-land; but i think
had those slaves been on the fast-an
i chored island of england, they woulc
i not have been freemen in '3b. the)
would have been slaves to-day.
there is nothing in the past history
there is nothing in the present condi
tion, of england, which leads a man tc
believe, or to be certain, at least, tba
had the british people american slave
ry to deal with, they could have born*
themselves more nobly than ourselves
recently they have done some noble
i things, taken a long step in an impor
tant direction; abolished the corn laws
a good thing; repealed the navigatior
laws, a good thing; but if a man shoulc
stand up in england, and lift up his
voice against the most tyrannous insti
tutions there, he would meet the same
opposition that he encounters here. 11
he lifted up his hand, and his voice,
and spoke in behalf of the millions ol
men who till the fields, and tend the
ooms of manchester, he would encoun
ter still stronger opposition, and denun
ciation yet more ferocious, if that be
possible.
still this was a great act, and a no
bie act; and when it was first performec
there were some earnest and sanguim
men here, who, in the passing belle
west india slavery, heard the funera
knell also ot american slavery. san
guine men said, that also must sooi
fall and perish. but now when elevei
years have passed by, men look anc
say that we have done nothing; thai
there has been anti-slavery agitation,
i but not anti-slavery pi ogress
i know' as we look at the matter a<
first it seems as if there was nothing
that had been done. since ’b3b, throe
administrations of this nation have be
gun; two serve out their time, and the
third is in the full tide of successful
experiment. (laughter.) ‘successful
has its meaning there. all these were
administrations of slaveholders. mr.
tyler, the whig slaveholder’ if whi<*
ihe were; mr. polk, the whig slaved
holder— (a voice, democratic) —deni-
i ocratic—excuse me, the whigs have
not the monopoly—mr. polk, the dem
ocratic slaveholder, who became a
christian on his death-bed, —(a voice
better late than never; —ay, better late
i than never, if it w ere so, —a very or
thodox christian, no doubt, who de
clared that he did not expect to go to
heaven for his morality, but to go there
by the sprinkling of water from the
priest’s hand. two administrations of
slaveholding presidents have begun
and ended, and the third,— call n
whig or call it democrat, which you
will, my friends, —is in the full tide of
successful experiment.
there lias been added to this family
of states, florida, a slave state, w ith
a constitution perpetuating slavery;
there has been added a new territory,
formed free from this institution, a
territory big as the whole kingdom of
france, and slavery established,
re-established there, made per
petual, so far as constitutions can bind;
there has been a war fought in behalf ol
slavery, to get new soil; and now a
territory, larger than the old thirteen
states, lies there, and the bold slave
holders, —modest now no more, k bui
grown insolent as they have grown
proud, and proud as they have grown
rich, —insist that freedom shall not set
her foot in that place.
vv e know that the north seeds men
to washington. the whig party
sends them, and the democratic part>
sends them, ready to extend this insti
tution over that soil, unless you say
them nay. great men have cornc up,
and great men have gone down; bul
not one of the famous and mighty men
in polities of this land has come forward
as the avowed and unfliuching cham
pion of this anti-slavery enterprise.
men look at this, and they say that
we have done nothing. look at it in
another way, and you will see that
tiiere has been something done.
in every great movement, there are
three periods; and the fint is the
period of tenluntnt. meu feel that
there is something wrong. they feel
that there is, likewise, somewhere,
something right, the antagonist of the
w rong, and its antidote besides bui
all it vague, all is uncertain. some
times, in the period of brntiment, men
rush iostantly into action. the action
is always a failure.
after the period of k#»/«»***/ comes
tb« period ot ideas. then, "bat
feeling hu beta trtptitted tato
•oh\* dirk. prrufhc*
whole no. 88.
i •bought; and men arc striving to make
the idea perfect, representing facts, to
make it complete, representing every
•®ot- this is a long period, and a
period ot hard and earnest and stern
w <>rk. idea is brought into collision
with idea, scheme with scheme, plan
with plan; and the two ideas struggle
each for victory, both for existence.
after the period of ideas, after the
idea becomes perfect and complete,
then men pass to the period of action
e arc at this moment in the period
ot ideas. ihe period of action has
i not yet come. men that have the
idea, seek to gain the sentiirait. they
seek to diffuse the idea; and when the
sentiment has kindled wide and deep
in the nation, when the idea has been
dilfused perfectly among the people,
then conics the period of action. but
while men are without tiie sentiment,
or with it slave not the idea, if you
propose to them your plan, and you
say, ‘no more sin rc territoni,' they can
not understand you. you say, ‘/tmi/
or annihilate the slave trade between the
states,' —t ey cannot comprehend that.
ibolish slavery in the terriloriesand
the distinct,' they cannot take in
even that. you say to them, ‘no
union with slaveholders,' —of course,
they cannot understand that. they
have not been through the preparatory
stage oi sentiment and idea, to grapple
with the harder practical lessons that
come afterward.
and yet, during this time, vastly
much has been done in the way of
j kindling sentiment and spreading the
1 idea. lookattiie state of feeling not
long since. it is n«*t a great while
,1 since the representative of .middlesex,
i [edward everett,] on the floor of
1 congress, justified slavery out of the
.1 new’ testament, declaring also, that if
any caase would lead him to put on
j his knapsack and shoulder his musket,
it would he to put down an insurrecli »u
|of the slaves. that was the voice
that went from lexington and bunker
i hill, was it? no; lexington and
bunker hill have since sent another
man there, 'mr. pai.fkey,] made ot
other stair, and who makes other
i speeches teo. since that time, 1 say,
there has been a great change. a
little while after that, when the anli
-1 slavery of massachusetts was incar
noted in one man, other prophets
there were, other apostles, but i am
not doing more than historical justice
j when i say, i'. was incarnated in one
man, —and that one man so obscure,
j and so unknown to lame, thut tho
mayor of boston could ip>t find him,
until he called in the police to aid,
and then tho only visible auxiliary of
anti-slavery was a negro hoy—(laugh
ter and applause) since thut day,
there has been a little ciinngc in nnti
alavery feeling, in anti-slavery ideas.
it is not long since the governor of
massachusetts, [mr. everett] sug
j gested to the legislature, whether it
was not proper thut they should legis
late to prevent anti-slavery discussion'
we have changed that a little.
and during this time, what have we
lost that we had before? one man,
[john quincy adams, standing in his
place iti the house of representatives,
—the ‘bear-garden’ of the nation, as
some mun says it is,—boldly and ear
nestly lifted up his voice, old hut elo
quent, in behalf of mankind. hun we
have lost; but in his place we imve bent
there one mightier than he, with inoro
power of intellect, though far inferior
in years, with more power of sentiment
and of ideas, with more power of jus
-1 tice, and without the alloy of passion;
one known by heart to all of you, i
doubt not, a.id who is an honor to tho
name he bears, —the name of manx.
(applause.)
look and sec some of the signs, ay,
some of the proofs, of this waking of
anti-slavery sentiment, of this diffusion
of anti-slavery ideas. this morning,
the boston post, becoming moral on the
subject of slavery, the boston post reads
a sharp lecture to the editor of the villas,
and rates him for being pro-slavery
(laughter.) who would have dared
to promise that, ten years ugo? no
man.
see, too, the grow th of this great,
this mighty free soil party! all over
i the noitli, the anti-slavery sentiment
i has been knidled. .all over the north,
the anti-slavery idea has been diffused.
i know the sentim* nt di.es not burn
strong, and the idea has not taken hold
deep of the whole mas* of men; hut
j there are spots where it burns like a
fire in the woods, where the idea sends
out its light into the daikness, and it is
heeded even at noon-day. 1 might cail
to witness a recent convention at
cleveland, as one proof of it. i might
point to the numerous newspapers,
avowedly anti-slavery. i might point
to the clergymen whom i see, thinly
indeed, scattered throughout this as
sembly; and you all know that the
clergy,—l myself am one of them,
are not the first t«* move in any chris
tian or public enterpri-e. where popu
larity is not ensured beforehand. [a
voice—truth!] true? i know it to be
true. i consider the presence of these
men, thinly scattered, one proof, and
not one of the least striking and sgnffi
cant proofs; but here i» another.
they say,— perhaps a fable, i
cio not give it a* a isct, tlu*y say that
scorpions, when g»r* about by a ting
of fire which they cannot break
through, turn upon each other, and
join fang to fang, and poison cornea to
poison. ee —those gentle
men to wnorn 1 allude shall have all
the benefit of the comparison—so w e
see two mighty southern politicians,
surrounded by a ring of anti-slavery
fire winch they cannot break through.
benton and calhoun, joining fang to
faag, and poison tooth to poison tooth.
this is not without its. 
significance. a* mr. benton is a democrat,
will you «av that mr. benton abhor* alswv
h mat i* s so. and before i wlb 11
might bo true but it is not the ein of pn tti
o.ans to bo righteous over much a,i k ts ‘‘j
and applause.) 'there is nothing that
know in the past history or present character
ot that distinguished man, whom eertainly i
honor tor manv wise counsels and some noble
deed*.— nothing m his past history or pie*eni
character, which would lead me 10 euppose
th o he sets a higher estimate than su robert
ivel, on disinterested philanthropy. i lake
him, therefore, as a mngnrficant sign of the
times, and for the present purpose, he is
inure valuable as an indication ot the times,
than if he had all the heroism of some men
whom 1 will not name. 1 look on him as a
great thermometer, hung up in our )>olinca!
wea'her. and he shows the anti-slavery heat
it is that which makes his mercury rise up
to the free soil point. (renewed, applause.)
these, my fnenda, are signs not to be
mistaken, signs ‘not to be s|«»ken against,'
(if 1 may speak out ot my own profession,}
which show that the anti-slavery sentiment
has got kindled, and the anti-slavery ideadif
iuaed these men have not labored m vain
mr. calhoun tells ut>, m that famous lettei
emanating from the slavery committee ru
washington —mr. calhoun tells ns that the
anti slavery men have done a good deal to
wards effecting then end. it is a great con
fession. bet h la not fully hue. they have
done a good deal towards their beginning, noi
towards their end, for the end is not yet
these men will not be satisfied with having
no more slave territory not be satisfied wit!
restricting the slave trade between the states
not be satisfied with abolishing slavery it
the capital and in the territories. no, —they
witl rend it ft ora the constitution they
will tread it out ol the land, and write tht
words, freedom and liberty, making a cross
therewith, in great broad letters, horn tht
bay of fundv to the gulf of california, and
backwards from ape sable to the lake
of the woods and they will not be satisfied
until they have done that. [a voice never j
never —.io let ns ail say, ?i‘cei f ap
plause.j
men u'it work in very different ways. 1
do not expect all men to work in tny wav.
i should be sorry il they tried no one man
is so wise as millions of men. the free
soil party has done much already. they
may not come up to the standard of my
friends here behind me. rut they have done
much already and i thank god, and 1 ihtmk
them for what they have done. one
at least, they have done. they have set a
fire in the rear of our doughface represen
tatives that we send to congress. (ap
plause.) still, there is much to do. now
is not the tune to relax oui energies. now,
rather, is the time to push, and bj active. tor
the first time since tin-adoption of the fede
ral constitution, the slave power has trem
bled, lias recoiled, has been defeated, and ha;
turned back.
the president of the united states ha
asked us to come together, to-day, and this,
1 think, is the first time that an anti-slavery
meeting was ever called by proclamation ol
the executive. (laughter.) 1 will not be
so unjust to the intellect of the cabinet ot
general taylor, or of that gentleman him
self, as to suppose that lie really partakes ol
the motives w hich seem to animate the pro
clamation. 1 have lug tier respect lor the
intellect of those men than to believe ijiat
they share the superstition so apparent in
their proclamation, and so apparent in the
proclamation ol our own governor
ret in old times, on a fast day, there
v**re two things to he done. one thing was
to repent. wo are told that the cholera has
come as a judgment lor national sins. the
national sin is slavery. the national sin iros
the mexican war, hut that is ended. .slavery,
then, is the national bin to be repented of.
rut the proclamations invite us to ask the
almighty to withdraw his hand. they do
not ask us to repent of our sin et that
is the put pose of a fast such as the lord
loveth, —such as our friend [the chairman|
read out of that grand significant md testa
ment. well, then, repentance is the firsi
duty. here let us all repent us of slavery.
let us repent us of our coldness in this ami
slavery enterprise. lei us repent us ol
cowardice in having sent cowardly men u
represent us, where cowards should not go
applause.)
rut the next object of a day ol fasting
was, after ihe lepentance, the resolution,
and the vow. here, than, let us make tin
vow to oppose, by sentiment, by ideas, ant
by actions, slavery in every place and ii
every form, and to promote freedom in even
place and m every form. i would appeal u
\ou who are men, and have votes to cast
and see fit to cast them, so to east them tha
they shall tell on the side of right 1 wouk
appeal to you who are women, who art
wives, who are mothers, tu take your chil
dren, and train them up so that when they
arc seven years old, they shall take tin
solemn vow of hostility to slavery, here am:
there, now and every where. (applause.)
extracts from ihe speech 01 wlnhell.
phillips.
1 am sorry, friends, that 1 am not well
enough, to-day, to addiess you. the only
reason 1 came to w oreestei was, i was not
walling that any one would have it m hit
power to say, that speakers were announced,
and then not present. rut, out «>i many,
you will not be surprised if some are detain
ed, or some are ill.
this is zachary taylor's fast for tin
cholera if the lord lias sent the cholera
here lor any sin, 1 suppose the great sin ol
the american people is slavery. iho&e whi
feel guilty ot it may last i oonut. to me
therefore, it is a feast, and not a fast i.ei
the sinners last, the saints rejoice. ‘let tht
galled jade wince our withers an: unwrung.
we have nothing to do with the great sin o
1 ho american people, tor we have spent om
lives in protesting against it.
doubtless it would be well for the ameri
can people to fast, hi sincerity, for this great
national n.quitv but we have other employ
ment more attractive, on this day, than u
bewail ihe sms of the american people
these hours represent lor us the greatest dav
in the sweep ol mile, when nearly a million
of fetters wore stricken from human limbs;
when, as lamm line has so beaulilully said,
dbertoii-c went up to the throne of tht
eternal wivn a innlion of broken felleis in
lna hands, as sv,det.ee ot a file well spent.
(applause tsuc-h is ihr dav we com
memorate. ibis is ihe refoun, the great
anti-slavery relotm whose f,uiu wecdebrai
to-day.
the anti-slaveiy enter;,r;* was the normal
school ol ail reforms. u was the rat tj 1)n
the f.nglish people to elkci a great tutioi a
change by moral means. tins was the effort
which first tauglu the people their jsi r<ul>tf,
previous changt-3 hud been wrought !,v t;,, v
eminent, —lew to he sure, and insignificant
and m the wrong direction, —b\ the high,-,"
classes struggling lor iheir own rights,—t n
violent means and just so far as they ‘i<*a
the sword,’ relied on violence, these had bee
failures west india emanripat n is tht
civjc crown which the british noddle clasj
wins lor its brow wins by no othciai influ
ence—not by wealth —nut by partv organs
tion —not on the battle-field but by leaven
ing slowly, and in patient faith, the publn
mind wul. the true. wilberforce and clark
son re educated the hrmsh people 11 vu:
the school-boys of ft*? (the year they be
gin) who, in 1*33, pronounced the emanci
psuon ot the islands. over parliament, ant
not through it, —in spue of office and noble
—by the press, by public meetings, by liver
of se.l d*-volton, by appeals in men wfu
weighed nothing singly but were mighty in
masses, ihev gained day bv day on the giant
evil, as the gnawing ocean gams on lhe
strand and like that, n> ver lost an inch
once iheirs ‘nothing permanent was eve.
done by violence,' said napoleon from m
helena never since the establishment ol
on i inanity hate men set purposely to work
nn the plan of the fim abolitionists. their
entire, triumphant, unequalled success is the
motive, while their course is the example,
and their veterans ollen tlie leaders, in the re
forms which have since b en effected, and
those which are now in proxies#abroad. the
ami slavery cause heiaided the wav, and
limited the soldtets for these. the hour of
its triumph was the first time that the heart
and thought of the common people had been
markedly arid peaceably felt tn that govern
ment. their hand* weie felt at naaeby. in
1*34. you heard their hearts heat.
our friend parker said, with a great deal
of until, that the anti-slavery sentiment of
great britain was often exaggerated that
some seemed to suppose, very erroneously,
that it embraced all daaaea in great britain.
he was undoubtedly right. the nobility, the
high-church, conservatives, pro-slavery party
in the house of lords and the house of
commons, were active.'powerful, overwhelm
ing 1 doubt whether they had not. to the
last, it not a majority, at least a very large
rninonlv of the english people upon their
side
it was. at la»t, the earnest, god fearing
men treading down the craven, afraid or
ashamed,’in the ituh century, to act out the
opinions he was not ashamed to hold. cer
tainly, he was correct, tt>o, in saying that
the anti-slavery enterprise was different in
e gland from what it is here. still, tny
opinion ia that, taking all things into eon
s.deration, emancipation, though a different
work, was not, in any gieat degree, an ea?ier
one there, than it may be here. they had
some aid we want, hut again, they lacked
manv advantages we possess. certainly there
was great truth in his remark, that if you
now stir in england iho rights of her lower
classes, you are met as fiercely as we are here
on this slave question. he might even have
gone further, and have said that many of
those who had borne the burden and heal ot
the anti-slavery da\. would be among your
j sternest opponents. there vs a? truth, enough
to make it a libel, in byron's petulant cry,
when p eadtng, vainly, for the weavers, ‘o’
that my clients were black, then they’d get a
heating!’
if 1 recollect right, our friend thought that
the english people wouid not have so soon
abo'ished slavery, if the slave had been in
their island. i have no doubt liiai it la true.
if the slave had resided in london, if the
slave nad been m the county of kent, the
enterprise would have been moreexacily like
i ours. still, if the slave at a distance is some
advant.ge, it has its disadvantages also.
they had their latimer, but no william and
ellen crafts, no b>x brown. this irresis
tible appeal to that sentiment which mr.
barker made the first wave ol the agitation,
was, trom the nature of the case, impossi
ble, or neatly so. again, the situation of
their slave population was such, that they
nad no douglass, and could hardly have had
one. besides, ev«>d the slave himself was
m the west indies, the slaveholder was in
the house of l iras —the slaveholder was in
the house of commons. hen the aboli
tionists argued ihe question, they argued n
with slaveholders for their direct personal op
ponent much of the wealth of england was
pledged to that side, the plantations of the
west indies were owned in the house of
lords, and that of the commons. some of
these owners—to the honor of england be
it spoken —stood by the abolitionists, though
they were not abolitionists in our sense ol
i the word, and not, 1 think, in any proper
sense, for they did not lree their slaves. t'ne
illustrious head of the house of fox was
possessed, at the commencement of the
emancipation movements, of west-india
property, and yet stood side by side with the
anti-slavery lords, and was actively engaged
with the anti-slavery committee in behalf of
their enterprise. true, english s avery was
abolished in spite ot the west indians; still,
the law which abolished u passed through
two houses, which, like our own, contained
i many slaveholders.
1 it is common to say, tho anti-slavery suo
cess of great britain was easier earned than
we c:nt expect to have it here, because parlia
merit had sovereign power over the colonies.
i as if the parliament of great britain was
not, at that time, itself, as pro-slavery a
body as our congress. the north is to
abolish southern slavery by the same means,
at the same odds lias over the subject gene-
i rally the same power as the freedom-loving
dissenters and churchmen of great britain
had over the islands. to be sure, the north
lias not the same technical legal powers, but
law lorms are only parchment. hearts,
thoughts, dollars, truth, rule the world.
give the american people, give the north,
the wish, and any unptincipled democrat or
w lug (perhaps the adjective is superfluous)
j will find tlie way.
great as was the political and official in
fluence brought to bear against the movement,
u is cheering to observe the maiked contrast
between the conduct of british siaiesmen and
that of urn hale men here who claim that
title. from 1787 down to 1833, no man
there, blessed with a name which has any
t claim to live, dated to go down to his grave
without leaving on record his protest agam&i
tins iniquity. the anti-slavery vocabulary
culls jts most forceful expressions from the
most eloquent lips of st. stephens. tonuni
ber up her champions were only to read the
list of the tenants of westminster. there
is no time, here, to analyze the reason why
lit did not at once succeed. the lact is, i
believe, as i state it.
there is one great, and, i confess, most
j important support to the slave system in una
country, which was wanting in england—
social prejudice against color. this is, to
be sure, a most important item to show that
mr parker’s estimate is, in a degree, correct.
•south carolina is. in one sense, as dependant
on massacuhsetts as jamaica upon england,
lhai important .slate ‘wastes, to be s ,ie, a
great deal of veiy excellent indignation’ on
(this subject. .still, while she can ‘say her
little speeches, and move her little motions,’
it is northern inind that rules this land—
northern enterprise has subdued its millions
ol acres, it is northern reputation that gives
weight to our public acta. it is northern
trade, northern commerce fills our lieasury.
it is the not them voice that is to pronounce
the end of slavery.
but does not me veiy prejudice, which he
at oi.ee astonishes and surmounts, give some
additional weight and effect to the eloquence
ol dotigiass 1 it is one of a despised race,
whom they were hardly willing io reckon
men, that thondeis and lightens, and shakes
j ail christendom ere theie time, perhaps
1 coni,i show therefore, that even with this
obaiac e in our way, we have means, on these
accounts, and in our stale of society, religious
iiobiis, omnipresent press, and form ol gov
ernment, which leave us even with our eng
lish predeccessors.
o, noble la«itssnrss christian trampl
j ung on majorities holy rebellion but 1
j want ail organized rebellion. i w ant a legal
j icbellion. i waul a recognized rebellion. i
want a stale rebellion. i want a legislative
rebellion. i have no regard for what i» called
conetitulional law. the day has gone by
when tlie constitution was any thing more
man a roll ot parchment, and we are contmu
|«i.\ paying less tegaid to it free soilers
j 11:11 ufc that they shad act without regard to
i d almost any nun wouid deem it an insult
i->e tu,d here, to-day, that he would return
a lugitive slave to ins master, that in this res
peet he would obey the constitution of the
nded states there is hardly a man who
been m the legislative hails of ibis state
tor the last year, ol any party, who would
not deem it an insult to be told here u>-day
that ill this respect he would obey the very
constitution ot the in tied sut«s which he
solemnly swore to uphold and support
then, if this is so, why not make that iw
'for massachusetts 1 why not pa w lt >s a
statute, and annul the onstituuoo of the
i mttd states' and if south carolina says
nay to it. you can puad her own example as
preeedent
hy lie any lorger bound by obligation*
which are fitter* only to lb. and weapons to
°*ifoe* f come, fellow citizen*, let u* riso
up, and make elean tho statute book of our
lathers hat if this course be unconstitu-;
tional r we mean it to lie so. e. too,,
are living men. and cm make constitution*.!
as well as our lathers.
j this is a great da\. because it is the day
on which england tried for us the expeument;
«*f freedom. i do not know but the larger
part of my audience are acquanted with the
circumstances of west india emancipation,
hut 1 do not believe that you have all reflect
ed upon the complete proof which that exper
iment affords of the safety and duty of
immediate emancipation reflected that the
experiment never can be tried again in
6u< h unfavorable circumstances as it was
tried then men say it is not wise to free
the slaves immediately. men say it is not
safe to free ;he slaves immediately. men
wav that a great political revolution like that
must take half a century for its accomplish
ment —that it cannot be done in a single year,
or a single generation.
now the slaves in the west indies were
about *30,000 m number. there were about
130,000 whites in those islauds. there
were nearly ten blacks to one white in some
of the m. in one small island, there wefe
ihree hundred blacks to two white men. in
jamaica, there were ten blacks to one white
man. those islands were 4000 miles irom
the civilization, and order, and government
of europe. if the black man had risen in
i his strength if he had remembered for one
moment the century ol oppression which be
had suffered if he had wished to revenge
i the wioiigs to which he had been subjected
long belore the tale could have been told in
europe, the white race might have been
trodden down under the very feet of the
people of the west indies. without a wpapon,
i they might have been trodden down by the
masses of emancipated men, walking to the
sea shore, and treading the puny pale face
beneath their feet.
this experiment of justice was to be tried
j now with a w holly uneducated race, ten timer
outnumbering their white oppressors, ii
is and* thousand of miles off from the very
i possibility of hope or help. the first ui
august came. the slave, —fretted with tbt
long delay, deceived again and again by
promises of emancipation which had not been
tulfilled by the tr.ckeiy of the masters, who
had once and again deleaied the honest in
tentions of the british government,—slowly
saw this eventful sun about to rise. the be
iiever injustice; the believer in the safely
of obedience to gud's government, mighi
well be allowed to tremble for a moment,
though ever so sanguine, at such an hour.
to the honor of the colored race, to the hopt
of humanity, to the joy and gratitude of every
believer in a just ruler of me universe, we
are able to look back upon that eventful scene
in the history of the race, and recollect that
ii was not sullied by one smgie act of ven-
i geance by one single expression of unkind
ness; by one single drop ot bloodshed when
800,000 slaves, whom white malice and in
genuity and lust had done their utmost to im
brute, were made men in a day. here and
j there was a regiment of british troops, it is
true; but what were they to the proud force
of 800,000 men in the first movement of lib
erty look at st. domingo. how long did
the veterans of napoleon how long did the
i choicest tioops of ihe english government
stand before 600.000 naked, unarmed hay
tiens, when they were told at midnight, in
the french cummissioner's alfiight and dis
may, that they were freemen, and might
defend how many of the eng
lish tioops ever set foot again on the
english strand 1 the same thing would
have been repeated, if the slave had but
dreamed for a moment of vengeance upon the
first of august.
1 say, nevermore can the experiment be so
liried. never again can such a conjunction
of circumstances take place, when man can
even plausibly distiust so much the policy of
giving immediate freedom to masses of slaves.
god seems to have given to us a nation, our
i beloved mother country, willing to believe
that justice was expediency. he seems to
have placed in its hands the problem in the
ugliest of aliapes, and most dangerous of
ciicuinstances, and then to have blessed it to
a most successfclul issue. the anti-slavery
cause is deeply the debtor ot this day for the
pioudestand noblest lesson humanity has
ever learned, faith both in the white race and
m the colored.
j it is a sad commentary upon such an event
i to look at the spoil will* which it has been
i criticised. almost eveiy book which has
been written referring to the subject, labors
most as to the number of pounds of sugar, or
hogsheads of rice, or puncheons of ruin, the
quantities of this thing or that tiling that are
exported. the west india experiment,—
was it succisaful 1 ask the american clergy
and people throughout. oh, yes' and why?
because the exports did not fail 1 the slave
f w oiked on the second day of august! he
i went out to the plantation, and made as
many sugai cane holes as ever! there is as
1 much sugar in the liverpool market from
those islands as before they were treed
as if there was nothing but sugar in
god’s world as if man was made to work,
and for nothing but work as if the ameri
can people were to testa great moral event by
hogsheads of sugar and puncheon* of rum
i do not care whether the slave worked oi
out. ido not care whether ihe slave made
one ounce of sugar or one pint of rum. it
j would not gneve me much to learn that he
i lay lazily under the graceful palm of his
native land. i do not care much to know
what he did. there is nothing worse than
j slavery, if he did not cut his master s
j throat, if there is a white man living in ja
inaica to-day, the experiment was successful.
tnere is nothing but anarchy that is worse
than slavery. tell rne that anarchy does not
exist in the british west indies, and you tell
i me that the experiment has succeeded.
some say that hayti is a pro>.f that eman
-1 cipatmn will not do for the slave, llayti has
been alluded to often. it is a monaichy,
they say. grant it so it is. it may be a
despotism. what then 1 what is despotism l
it is the baby step of civilization. despotism
is the first ground that man touches in hi*
ascent from anarchy to liberty. monarchy
is the second step. well the haytiaus
have reached monatchy, and that is two steps
from slavery, which is nothing at all noih
uig at all to the moral man i othing but tm
brinn g the ir.telleciual nature of man.
this is looked upon as a great effort in the
british people. i njoubtedly it was. but
m this country, strong as it is, nothing
i compared with the energy of* the american
j jieople, nothing at all. twelve hundred
millions of dollars, i know are lending to
slavery their influence. i know that the poii
j \ics of the country are mortgaged to the slave
system. i know lhat the northern church
.»infected to th>- c< re. the iitenuure of the
country is proemuted; i confess it. the ed
ucation of the country is qualified by the pro
slavery sentiment; i know it. but nobody
has seen yet the mighty energy of a free
people.
do not hesitate, therefore have no fear
noj trembling; no quaking, or any trembl
j mg knees; as it this great people, these glori
ous stales, were powerless—lor they are
glorious, with ail thetr hypocrisy, then blood
i guiltiness, and their indifference to the *lave.
we are still a noble people. all we wan; is
to re-educate this slumbering con*cience
i show them slavery, and then duty to gel ric
j of it, and they ill spring to the work w»th
i all the convulsive energy of a people walking
ne w and fresh to their duties.
and who will do a for you* any of the
little insignificant men that crowd anu-aiaven
platforms and hold acu slavery meetings’
ob, no' go home make anti slaverv to be
every thing, a reality arid 1 will find you the
men ou shall have the most eloquent lip®,
«f yoa want them go home, and call fo
torn,and you shall have robert wmthrop foi
an anti-slavery lecturer. (laughter.) g<
home, and call f*>i him, and the mighty dan
tel himself stall become a speaker fat imme
diate emancipation; only »et up m steeple
w the weathercock* setuaf
norllt in*^o7 kpoulh. 1 lies* men dwell 10
so higo| s»acold an atmosphere that the
flood high indeed which weta their
steuy sstili yon hare in your power to
stir ihecrlup, hy the energy ol a iree preaa
and of a wee people, and to cih out all this
god-given talent to do the work. then we
shall hare a first of august when we may
•peak well of ouraelres instead of the english,
and we shall hare feasts instead of fasts, one
end of the country to the other. (applause.)
from the pittsburgh gaielle.
anniversary of emancipation in the
weal indies.
the first of august being the ann irersary
of the day on which, bv a decree of the brit
ish parliament, liberty was gtten to 800,000
human beings, who had hitherto been held in
bondage in the west indies.our colored fellow
citizens assembled in a grore opposne the
residence of mr. arthurs, in laceyville, to
commemorate that glorious event.
the meeting w hich was organized at 10
o’clock, a. m., by calling the rev. s. john
son to the chair, and appointing j. peck
vice president, and james jones secretary,
was opened with prayer by the rev. l.
jgross.
appropriate addresses were made by
messrs. john peck, t. a. brown, matthew
jones, and the rev. mr. green, after
which the meeting adjourned until this after
noon.
the large assemblage which was present,
then took dinner at the various tables
which were scattered through the grove.
the meeting was again called to order be-i
tween two and three o’clock, when addreses
were made by the following gentlemen:
rev. charles avery, and passavant.
messrs. j b. yashon, m. r. delany,
james jones and several others.
after the delivery of the addresses, the
meeting adjourned until the evening, when
the grove was very prettily and tastefully
illuminated by lights being placed among the
trees.
the addresses, of the rev. messrs. avery
and passavant, were exceedingly eloquent,
and altogether the day passed off very har
moniously.
the north star.
rochester, august 31, 1849
"the labors of the past week.
we were absent from our post most of last
week, attending anti-slavery meetings and
fairs, which were held at macedon, farming-:
tun and palmyra. of the meeting and fair at
macedon oui readers have alieady been in-j
foimed. on tuesday, the 19th instant, we
held a meeting in the (orthodox) friends’
meeting house at farmington, which wasi
attended by a large audience. faimington
has long enjoyed the reputation of being an
anti-slavery town, but with what propriety it
is difficult to determine. there is evidently
very little active anti-slavery there of any kind
at this time there seems to be a general
falling off of effoit on the part of those who
formerly acted in favor of the abolition cause.
we attribute this change to the impatience
and want of faith which, too often, display
themselves in the movements of enthusiastic
reformers. instead of waiting for the slow',
but sure and certain results of the foolish
ness of preaching,*’ they have sought after
what they conceive to be more efficient instru
mentalities—have been disappointed and dis
heartened, and, at length, have become apa
thetic and indifferent. starting with wm. l.
garrison on the broad platform ot the ante
riern anti-slavery society, they, with few
exceptions, have deserted, and have united
with the liberty party, and that party being
swallow-ed up by the free soil party, they have
now no distinct plan of operation against sla
very, but appear to be waiting for some other
and more feasible mode of acting out their anti
slaveiv principles. as an evidence of the pro
slavery influence of the place, we may mention
the fact, that the large meeting-house of the
hicksite quakers is closed against anti-slavery
and all other reformatory meetings. it is
hereafter to be exclusively devoted to religious
purposes. this house was applied for, a few
weeks since, by joseph dugdale, a man of
spotless purity of character, and of deep devo
tion to the cause of freedom, and not only was
a refusal given to this application, but one of
the professed followers of elias hicks went
so far as to nail up the doors and windows.—
when will men learn that “mercy” is above
1 “sacrifice;” that true christianity is not to be
advanced by the shutting up meeting houses
against reform, and turning a deaf ear to the
cries of god’s poor
on monday evening we had the privilege
of addressing a large audience in the baptist
church of palmyra. on tuesday, the ladies
of the w estern new york anti-slavery so
ciety held an anti-slavery fair in that place,
by which they realized the sura of $53. a
larger sum might have been received but for
the limited character of the notice.
a series of anti-alavery meetings and fairs,
in connection with the western new york
anti-slavery society, are to be held during
the autumn—which we have no doubt will be
found highly beneficial in awakening and
keeping alive an interest in the cause of the
slave.— f. d.
the national league.
e suggested, a few weeks since, the idea
of an organization under this title, which we
are happy to find has been well received j
among our people, so far as they have been
heard from; and we are encouraged in the
hope that some efficient steps will be taken to
carry this idea into effect. it is certainly high
lime that the oppressed colored people of the
lmted states should awake to the impoi-1
tance of presenting a united front to this
nation. w e have, too long, allowed our-'
selves to remain obscure, separated and scat
tered. w e are not seen by the world, nor bj
the american people, scarcely, contending
against oppress on for our own rights, and for
our elevation. we present no tangible form
of opposition to siavery; and are known only
to the world as a divided and apathetic people,
submitting, without effort, to wrongs which,
if endured by others, wonld nerve them to the
adoption of almost any means for (heir redress
it is quite true, that we have occasionally
j held colored national conventions, passed re
solutions, trained addresses, and published
our proceedings to the world, and it is also
true, that these conventions have been of
great service a directing public attention to
our wrongs, and in awakening an interest in
our improvement and elevation. but even
1 these conventions have been l.ttle better than
failures, for want of previous organization io
the various localities of the delegates.
hat we now want, and what we niutt
hare, is a national union, baaed upon broad
and well defined prmciplao, which shall unite
the free people of color throughout this coun
try in an undivided effort to promote their own
cause.
it w a shame to us, that while men are
struggling for freedom throughout the world,
even with “carnal weapons,” we are com
paratively indifferent spectators of our own
degradation and oppression, and do not even
put forth a united moral effort in the cause of
our own freedom; too often forgetting that
self-ahttaemcm pave* the way
to villain hoods and despotic *way-”
we call upon our brethren to commence, 1
at once, to organize branches in their various
localities, with a view to the formation of
the national league.” if but five persons
in a town, village or district, can be found in
favor of a union, we would have them imme-|
diateiy band together, atid give notice of the
fact through the columns of the north
star.”— f. d.
father mathew.
the invitation extended to this gentleman,
to attend the celebration of west india eman
cipation, (an event grateful to every true
british heart, as well as to the heart of every j
lover of mankind.) has called forth a flood of
the most malignant and bitter denunciation'
against win. l. garrison and the gentlemen
who acted with him in presenting it. father 1
mathew must (if he has not lost all power of!
discernment,) see that he has thrown himself
into the arms of a hass ot men who are as,
hostile to the cause of human freedom as the!
most inveterate despots on earth.
his reasons lor declining to attend that
celebration were bad, but the spirit which
characterizes his defenders is incomparably
worse. among the last whom we expected
to see arrayed in his defence are george
bradburn and the editor of the chronotype;”
for, although we know them to be most vio
lent and biller haters of w. l. garrison, we
yet supposed that their clear perception of
truth and duty, and their great admiration of
straightforwardness and independence, would!
have lifted them above the paltry position they;
now occupy. both messrs. bxadburn and
wright well understand that the celebration of:
west india emancipation in massachusetts is,
not a party demonstration; and no men know
belter than they, that the entertainment of
disunion views is not made a sine qua non to
a welcome to the platform on such occasions; j
yet ihey adduce the revere of all they know 1
on this point in defence of father mathew’s
refusal to attend the celebration in question.
straws show which way the wind blows; a
chip may tell the direction of the tide. mr.
bradburn, who lectured us sometime since,
on the ground that we declined to discuss a
theological question in our columns, because
the paper is especially devoted to the anti
slavery cause, would now defend father
mathew from rebuke on account of his being
especially devoted to the cause of temperance.
times have changed: mr. bradburn has
changed with them. suppose daniel o’con
nell had lived to tread our soil, and to speak
to the people of thjp country in favor of
j repeal, and had owned himself opposed to
“committing himself” on the subject of sla
very, would george bradburn and mr.
wright have defended him with the contemp
tible excuse that he came here especially to
promote repeal j udging from their present
j course, we have reason to believe they would
so have stultified themselves.
the following extract from a speech deli
j vered by mr. bradburn, in faneuil hall,
seven years since, on the presentation of the
anti-slavery addiess signed by father mathew,
daniel o’connell, and 70,000 otheis, will
show the high point of detestation of slavery
from which he has fallen:— f. d.
slavery strikes at the interest of every
laboring man. i want the irishmen to know
this. i wish father mathew or
daniel o’connell were here
to give this fact fit utter
ance. let me tell you, daniel
j o’connell said in a speech w hich i heard him
make last year—one of the most noble-hearted
men that god ever created, for he makes
moral conduct, not color, the test among men
he had long desired to visit america, but'
he would never do so as long as its soil was
i polluted by the foot-piints of a single slave.
the american republican? he regarded as!
the vilest of hypocrites and the greatest of
liars.’ .such is his abhorrence ol
slayery, that he will not shake hands with
american slaveholders. with what scornful j
intonation does he pronounce the very word j
he considers them, as they are, the basest
among the base. again does he send his!
j voice thundering against the westerly breeze,’ j
[pointing to the address,] and it rings through
our meeting to-night. he asks you to join
me abolitionists to destroy this accursed sys
tem
failing him out!
mt. ward, in a letter addressed to the
rev. henry highland garnet, calls upon
that gentleman to state whether he holds the
views we attributed to him, (in our remarks!
upon hi* mission to england,) or not.
we shall be as happy as mr. ward to have,
mr. garnet’s affirmation or den.al of any pari 1
of the article in question. we aim at all times j
to give a fair and candid statement of the views
of an opponent; and if we have misstated him.
ihe columns of the north star are open
to him. the impeachment of mr. garnet’s
motive* was derived legitimately from well
defined premises and the latter must be over
thrown before he can escape the charge of
hollowness and hypocrisy.— f. d.
henry highland garnet is about to vis
it great bntain, where be is to be employfia
in lecturing to promote abstinence from ted
production of slave laybor. mr. gametthe
one of the few colored men of this country who
lias been fortunate enough to acquire a classi
cal education. he posesse* a vigorous mini
and i* an able and energetic speaker, but he
is filled wuh the spirit of violence, and is
withal an incorrigible priest. he has done
every thing in his power to injure the reputa
tion and destroy the influence of frederick
douglas*, by echoing the charge of‘lnfidelity,'
brought against him by a pro-slavery church.
many of the colored people, unfortunately,are
bitter sectanans, and mr. garnet has done hi*
worst to array this class in hostility to the elo
quent fugitive that he will misrepresent
and malign douglas* in great bntain we have
no doubt, and therefore we anticipate that he
will do vastly more harm than good.—-4. s.
but’ 1
a slave was arrested on sanday week in
new orleans for playing a fiddle in a coffee
house, arm thereby violating the sabbath'
‘tell your father,’ said john randolph, to
a young friend, ‘that i recommend absti
nence from novel reading and whiskey pooch.
depend upon it, nr, they are both injurious to
the brain
pedtiirr.
will our pedantic friend brad*urn do us
the favor to point out the grammatical errors
which he a/hgrt exist in the following sen
tence 1 mr. bradburn, having disposed of
our objections to mr. carnet, with a maik -d
love of good english, tnes to mend our gram
mar, but with as little success as his attempt
to wipe out the inconsistencies of mr. garnet
although we defercntitllv accepted one of
our friend’s corrections, (substituting “either
by precept or by example for “either by pre
cept or example,") we by no means regard jus
criticisms as just. perhaps we evince an
unca’led for sensitiveness in noticing at all
what mr. bradburn miv say of our grammar;
for we believe he plays the schoolmaster to
the whole nation. he asks, (in last week's
paper,) what is the reason that so few of
our american officials can write like lord
elg.n, or can write english at all 1”! liis
vanity, on this point, reminds us of a story he
used to tell, of a lady, who thought that her
self and the minister were the only persons in
the church that would get to heaven. he
evidently thinks that he and john c. calhoun
are the or.ly writers of good english in ame
rica.—f. n.
fairs! fairs! fain!
the ladies and friends of the western new
\ork anti-slavery society intend to hold a
fair at victor, on saturday, the bth of sep
tember, at which a large assortment of elegant
and useful articles will be presented the
majority of which were made in england,
iteland, and scotland. the friends of the
slave are earnestly invited to attend.
the refreshment tables will be amply pro
vided with delicacies, including ice-cream and
lemonade.
frederick douglass will hold an anti
slavery meeting at victor on the previous
evening, friday, september 7th, at seven
o’clock.
there will also be an anti-slavery fair
held at east bloomfield on monday, septem
ber 10, which will be preceded by an anti
slavery meeting on sunday, the 9th inst.
the energetic co-operation of the anti-sla
very friends in these towns is earnestly soli
cited.
the hyperion.
this paper, the publication of which we
noticed favorably five or six weeks ago, has,
we are are sony to learn, ceased to exist.—
we have not seen a copy of it since the date
of our notice, and we conclude that it scarcely
lived to hear our word of congratulation.
the frequent failure of papeis started by
colored persons, has induced us to be tardy
in noticing their commencement, lest we
should be almost immediately compelled to
announce their discontinuance. why will
not our brethren unite in supporting one or
two papers, which shall be a credit to them,
instead of squandering their mosey and mis
applying their energy on a multitude of papers
which can never be supported, and the failure
of which serves only to abase us in the popu
lar estimation t f. d.
1 he executive committee of the western
anti-slavery society ha* issued a very urgent
and eloquent call for a grand convention of
the young men and women of ohio. it is
truly heart-cheering to observe the spirit and
perseverance with which these western abo
litionists apply themselves to the work of
emancipation. convention after convention is
held in most rapid succession and the whole
face of the anti-slavery movement in ohio
wears the most lively aspect.
the convention now' recommended to meet
at berlin, mahoning county on the 21st, 22d
and 23d of september next, will doubtless be
a brilliant and powerful demonstration in be
half of the slave. god speed the western
abolitionists! we shall try to imitate their
example to the extent of our ability. but we
are comparatively alone in western new
aork; and, although not disheartened, we
feel greatly the need of fellow workers in this j
part of the anti-slavery vineyard.— f. d.
we observe, with pleasure, that the dis
graceful and dastardly treatment which we
received, in company with two english friends,
at the hands of captain frederick stone, on
board the alida, some months since, is widely
exposed and suitably commented upon by a
most respectable part of the british press.—
our skin-deep aristocracy (whose only sense
of its superiority is found in it* ability to in
sult colored persons wuh impunity,) receives
a well merited rebuke from the trana-atlantic
press. the description of this brutish out
rage (found in another column,) copied from
the birmingham mercury,” i*, in every re
spect, true. out upon the miserable pretence
of the american people to liberality and civi
lization it is all stuff! the man must have
the heart of a tiger who could sit down at the
table, satisfy his own hunger, and chuckle
with delight, as did the passengers on board
the alida, becane a colored brother was re
fused food i—f. 1 f. d.
ihe cuba project.—a letter written
from new york, to the washington union,
makes some rather remarkable additions to
the prevatbng rumors, respecting this affair.
he sa?s, that a large uumber of w’ealthy
creole families are preparing to assert the in
dependence of the island on the first favor
able opportunity and have bought a large
quantity of arm*, military siores, ac., in this
country and in england. he says also
“there are now a large number of wealthy
and patriotic creole* of the island in the if.
states, ostensibly traveling for pleasure, but
really picking men out of among those who
distinguished themselves in the mexican war,
whose names and experiences would, if iden
tified in the first movement, be likely at once
to create a deeper sympathy in their cause in
the breast of the american people, while it
could not fail to inspire confidence in their ul
timate success on the part of all residents of
the island.”
the missouri republican gives further m
foitnahon respecting the movement, and those
concerned to it.
“it is stated to us that a company of fit teen
hundred men is beineenrolled in n. orleans,
who are to serve twelve months, and be paid
one thousand dollars each for the year. they
are informed that they ate to fight, but not
told against who.u ibetr wartare is to be
directed. it is said that half a million of dol
lars are on deposit m the anal band, to uae
in the enterprise. nearly the full comple
ment of men baa been obtained, and it is
probable that devekipn&enu will aoon be
made aa to the design of the expedition
the pence c ongre«s in pan?
this enterprise bids fair to prove a mevt
efficient demonstration in favor of petmaiert
peace among tie iat ion? the 2lst of au
gust will .mother auspicious rlav in
th? anna!? ol the ami hi'? progress, and not a
few will be found ii i* tftf-r to refer to it is
the day when the old and n<*w world united
in the tr representatives to unfurl the standard
of universal p«mc*> on the most warlke foil
in the world ihr delegates from america
(many of whom are already on their way)
will be headed by theveoeiable joshua gid
ding?. esq, the father of the house of hep
i reseniatives, and oiher gentlemen of influence
in the i ruled .slate*. it is expected that they
will ihiml»er iot less than one hundred per
sons. richard cobdeii, erq, m. p.. w.
ewart. esq, m. p.. charles htmllev,
esq.. mp. and several men.hers of the house
of commons, have signified their intention of
attending the vongress.beisdt s a large num
ber of other influential gentlemen from the
provinces, the know ii leader? ot public op
pinion in their several localities. the com
mittee of arrangements have evidenilv com
bined economy with comfort in engaging a!i
the expenses ol railway t.ansit each way,
and the hotel accomodation in paris for one
1 week.at—for the first classfl/. 10s. and second
class, 5/. 10s. while a great object is ad
vocated, this arrangement makes it at the
same time one of the cheapest “trijs” ever
vet undertaken.
a committee of organization lias been form
ed in paris, consisting ot mm. horace say,
bouvet, girardio. cnevalier. garnter.victor-
lefranc, and other eminent men, ail of whom
have manifested a deep interest tn the subject
they have opened up an extensive cotrts
pondence with leading men in germany,hol
land, belgium and the french departments,
and the respon es havebeen most encouraging
the direct authorisation ol the french
goverment for the holding of the congress
i has now been given through the medium ot
the minister of the interior, who gave his
consent with ttic inmost readiness. the
friends of the undertaker, therefore, have the
greatest reason to he encouraged, and to go
forward, strong in the assurance that the
congress at paris will deal another success
ful blow at the most monstrous system that
can disgrace the civilized world.— london
standard of freedom
strike for wages. the chionotyp c
gives a report of a meeting of journeymen
tailors and sempstresses, recently held in
faneuil hall, from which it appears that
england can no longer boast (us it has been
sometimes said she might do) of being the
j only country in the world that starves her
workmen equality-loving america bids fair
to rival, if not to outshine her in the glory of
1 that bad pre-eminence one of ihe speakers
exhibited articles made for the clothing esta
blishments in boston, and stated the low
i
prices which were paid for making them.
he showed vests that were actually put toge
ther for the enormous surn ot—what think
you, reader 1 twenty cents for the informa-
i tion of our english friends, we mav say that
i this is elevenpence sterling shirts for seven
cents —fourpenco sterling ac.
there are tw o cures for this state of things
both in this country and in england—less
competition and more honesty. ihe first is,
in this country easily gained—not so easily in
the old world there are thousands of acres
in the west and far est, calling, as it were,
j to the sickly and struggling inhabitants of
our cities, gome, cultivate us why will
men stick bv a calling that does not yield
them a livelihood 1 they might have learn
ed by this time, that when they can’t get a
fair remuneration for their kind of work,
there are too many at it. the remedy, a*
before observed, is comparatively easy in this
country. strikes can't much mend the mat
ter. when successful, they are, at best,
only a partial and temporary relict from tha
evil. he who would eradicate the disease
must cut deeper. a proper distribution ot
labor would doubtless be the best remedy
but failing of that, as we aie likely to do for
many years to come, it seems that the best
course for each to pursue is to do what will
be most productive. then let the unem
ployed or ill-paid citizen take his spade on
his shoulder, and his axe in his hand, and
make the woods ring with the echo of fall
ing trees, arid the upturned earth will speedi
ly bloom under his persevering labor, and
bring forth abundantly, ft is as shameful
as it is irrational, that any should be unem
ployed, when there is so much to be done.
if individual means are not sufficient for this
purpose, let them be supplied by the .state
in the end, as is abundantly obvious without
illustration, even a large outlay will be amply
repaid.—j. l>.
the kentucky movement. —the result
of the election of delegates to the proposed
convention for the revision of the constitution,
has turned out even worse than the least aan
gums auticipated. it i? supposed that not a
single candidate of the emancipation party
has succeeded. but great good has doubt
less been done by the vigorous agitation ol
the subject of slavery, which this movement
called into being. the ude must turn in
that state ere long. there are many good
and true men in kentucky who are not to be
discouraged by such an apparent defeat. our
hope is, that the knowledge which this re
sult imparls of the strength of slavery in
their midst, will lead them to redoubled and
more energetic effort if u*e leaders in this
cause only learn from henceforth to have
mote faith in the power ol a great principle,
and taking the higitest [ground ot right, to leave
expediency to demagogues and politician*,
they will gain, and the cause of the slave
will gam more than u loses, by the defeat ol
this movement. i. u.
official colorfhobia.—-th* aeculitr pa
per* are discussing, w t th an earnestness
which indicates the strength that the anii-eia
very feeling ba?e acquired, the refusal ot
secretary clayton to give a passport to a
colored freeholder of pennsylvania,who desire
♦d to go abroad. 1« is pleasing to oteeive, in
this discussion, that both accusers and apoo!
ogista of the secretary conduct, take special
pains to abhor th* deed. the cowardlv sub
serviette* it evinces to slaveholdmg pride and
prejudice, finds no favor with either political
party at the north ihe pressure of opif.-
lon has reachtsi even the secreiary himself,
who has been const rained tojustitv his course,
by *n appeal to the usage ot the department
i hi» has been proved untrue—several mstan
ces ol passport* given to colored citizens,
and in some instances by secretaries, them
selves slaveholders, having been cited but
what if precedents were against it' no one
pretends that these arc of binding authority,
and any man, whose mind was not tainted
with unworthy prejudice, or iiivarrd by feat
of the south, would on his own im
pulses if jusnee arid right, have granted the
passport. it would not in the lea?t extenuate
the conduct of mr clayton, if his line ol pro
cedents had l*-*n broken we hope that so
i liberal a man a»mr. clayt**n. will be
1 ashamed of his prejudice, and that the mdtg
nation with which such paltry mjusuc* i* ts
garded. will put au end lu ibis absurd defer
i ence to the supposed w ishes of slaveholder!
and negro haters
foreign news of the week
l hf fanada apt- judkins.) arrived at
u yotk, on thursday morning. the 23d
ir]it sp ,i buns'- a week'* latet intelligence
f .-n europe
i hie ratifications of a treaty ol
(<v an- «■->nmorce were exchanged on ih*
ui r s'. between (treat bntain and the
x(m nt j hcpublto ol liberia. the article!
were signed h) i-»rd palmerston and hon. c
l.aboueheie on the part of great britain, ant
bv joseph jenkins huberts on the pan of th«
\f:ioan repuolio ill not the governmen
..1 these united states, bv a similar act. ontoi
i.pon their first instalment of j istico to th*.
tailored race such a treatv entered into b>
tins fountrv, would be a graceful act. a?* ab
staining from all recognition and acknowledg
ment of the infant colored republic will sene
in render more indelible tiic sterna aflixed to
the american name, and be an additional proof
oi the unyielding supremacy of pro-slavery
counsels in the cabinet. i'he treatment o!
ibvii docs not give much encouragement on
th.s point. it »s a burning disgrace to this
sha r-republican, professedly equality-loving
on< that to thi« day, there never has been
v acknowledged emissaiy trom hayti re
rt. vp i at washington, nor any recognition
whaler ‘d the existence rf such a state.—
piobably the calhouns, and mcduffies, and
r»vlors. are afraid (ami not without reason,)
u,a: they might be outdone in intelligence,
refinement, and m real manliness of character,
by a black hay turn ambassador. what a
bl o w it would be to their arrogant pretensions
of extraordinary intelligence, if they found
themselves outstripped bv a half-man-halt
xnonkey. let them by all means adhere to
their present course a change might l*e dan
gerous the truth, as long as it can be hid
den, is |ust as innocuous as if it had rio exis
tence they wrap tf up.'' cholera is
su'd prevalent and on the increase in london.
the times reports 265 and 110 deaihs
on the yth of august; and in other parts ol
f.ngland and in scotland, for the same
r.y, r3 e<i and 241 deaths. harvest had
roiittncnced in the south and south-western
pails of england, with the prospect of a more
than average crop. all tears respecting the
had subsided. there are here and
ihere instances ol the disease, but the aspect
ol the crop is generally healthy and promising.
\s a iesult of this, the demand lor indian corn
has fallen off 10s. per quarter. the price for
wheat has also fallen off considerably, more,
however, in consequence of the anticipation
of a large foreign supply, than because of any
present abundance. ihe papers give very full
accounts of the queen's progress in ireland.
the royal party arrived at cork on the 2nd
inst at night, where the authorities were
caught napping, as they had not expected the
visit so soon by twenty-four hours. the
royal squadron sailed trom ork on saturday,
and arrived at king; ion on sunday evening.
the day following, her majesty and suite
disembarked and proceeded to dublin by rail
way. the reception of the queen at cork,
kingston, and dublin, was enthusiastic in
the highest degtee. the poor, ignorant, but
generous mm! impulsive irishman, can shout a
welcome to royalty, even m his rags. hat
real good, if any, lie supposes this queen’sj
visit will do him, it is rather difficult to,
imagine. as a political mano-uvre, it may,|
and doubtless will, have its use. the popu-j
larity of the whig government will without
doubt be thereby promoted, and the carrying
out of whig measures for ameliorating the
condition of' that suffering portion of lier
majesty’s subjects, will be in some measure
rendered more easy. but ibis is probably all.
]t would he much, however, if there were
any prospect of the present ministry really
taking the difficulty in hand in earnest. bui
this vvoik must be reserved, it is to be feared,
from any prospect which as yet presents itself,
for a man of larger calibre and more compre
hensive and generous sympathies than lord
john russell. he is as good a premier as
anybody else, when there is nothing to do;
but he has no soul for a gieat enterprise.
the liverpool commercial summary says that
every department of trade continues in a
healthy state. the manufacturing districts
are actively employed, and there is a good
demand for cotion and woollen goods. money
it abundant, but in little demand.
france.— on the 3d inst., the minister ol
finance laid before the assembly a statement
of the treasury, showing that during the last
ten years there had been a constantly increas
ing deficit. it appears that the revolution of
lu; ,ear has added 265 millions to the expen
ditures, and reduced the proceeds of the indi
rect taxes 150 millions m de lamartine
has, it is said, been compelled to obtain trom
the legislative assembly an unlimited leave
ot absence, m order to sell his estate, and
liquidate his pecuniary engagements. the
editor ot a paper named le people has been
a second time condemned by default to fle
years’ imprisonment and ti.ooof. fine, for
having published articles exciting the citizens
to hatred of ihe government, to civil war, &c.
the president has returned to paris from his
visit to the western provinces. some of the
french journals say that this visit has turned
<-,tt a failure, and thereupon found the conclu'
-ion, that the country is not ripe for an em
peror, whatever it may be for a king a
new political paper will appeal m paris m
the yoth of september, which will advocau
the views of the legitimist party this i:
lather significant of the growing popularity o
that cause the president, referring to th<
rumors which were floating about, relative t<
an intended elfoit of the administration t«
change the lorui ot government, denies tin
charge, and have foreign armies in
vaded our territories’ is france lorn b)
war is the law without vigor, and th«
government without force no we are noi
n condition to mnsmtah- such heroic reme
dies general hoaiolau has appointee
commander-m duel of the army in italy, li
i lie place *<t (icn gudinot, because, as ta said
of the inability of the latter t„ w o «k in har
mony wall the pope, who ha- always looked
upon him with -u-p.rion a l.ange of min
isters is very generally looked lor m mule
it is said, will be prune-minister.
it*m .—the pope was expected to i. iun
to the capitol on the 10th nisi i hejparisiai
correspondent ol tin morning jlciald write;
that orders have been issued lor the return o
a considerable portion ol the army from italy
'i i.iis the hera d’s correspondent thinks, rna;
he ittnhuted chiefly to the unceasing rernon
atrances of the british government, whici
viewed with great occupa
pat ion of rome. geo. ovidinot u un.versally
unpopular amongst all parties.
swrritßlasn. —difficulties, it seems, have
arisen beiween this country and germany,
though the precise ground* of the quarrel do
not now appear. an extraordinary session
of the federal assembly commenced on the
ist inst. the levy of tmopa which had been
made was unanimously approved of. the
french ambassador has made a communica
tion. on the part of his government, to the
president of the confederation, to the effect
that he advised the termination of the dispute
as speedily as possible, and at any price.
france, he says, looks with displeasure upon
the armament, as keeping up the revolutionary
spirit, and producing a useless agitation. the
swiss general du four has published a proc
lamation, in which he tells the troops that
their present duty will be to protect the fron
tiers.
hungary. —the state of affairs in this
country is still very difficult to be understood.
the war is still being carried on, with various
success on both sides. it seems to be ascer
tained, however, that on the 4th inst. a sharp
attack was made upon the austrian garrison
at raab, which resulted in that city falling
into the hands of the hungarians; and they
found in it 80,000 bushels of oats, 2,400 head
of cattle, and large stores of miscellaneous
provisions, which they carried to the citadel
of cotnoin. they captured, also, six guns,
and took two companies of austrian infantry
prisoners. bern has also taken possession, as
it is said, of hermanstadt and cronstadt. the
austrians lost in this engagement 10,000
killed and wounded, nearly all their artillery,
and 8,000 prisoners. upon the whole, the
position and prospects of the hungarians
seem to be improving. the intelligence,
however, is not entirely to be relied upon.
ttiere is evidently much intentional or ignor
ant misstatement on all sides—probably the
most to, on the side of the hungarians, the
spmpailiy of the british journals, from which
the news is gathered on this side of the at
lantic, (being all or nearly all in their favor,)
with the best intentions is distorted and ex
aggerated to meet the wishes, perhaps more
than the knowledge of the writers. from the
other countries of europe there is nothing
of sufficient importhoce to demand special
notice. j. d.
communications.
brooklyn, l. 1., aug 28, 1849.
mu. editor:— two weeks since, there
appeared in the irish american (published by
p. lynch, an irish refugee, for which 1
honor him) an attack upon abolitionists gen
erally, and more particularly upon william
lloyd garrison and frederick doug
lass, denouncing them for denouncing oth
ers as the greatest enemies to and the great- 1
est obstacles in the way of speedy emancipa- j
non. a colored young man of this place
replied to mr. l., defending the motives and
to some extent the measures of the aboli
tionists, though disapproving the particular
act that gave birth to the articles above men
tioned, vjz mr. garrison’s mission to invite
father mathew to attend the anti-slavery
festival at worcester. this brought out the
i. a. in a long explanation, withdrawing his
censure of motives, and only censuring the
measures of messrs. garrison and douglass.
he says, that wm. lloyd garrison and
frederick douglass are the greatest enemies
to abolition and the greatest friends to the
continuance of slavery in america, of all i
living men. one threatens the dissolution of
the union. fot this he should be attainted
as a traitor. frederick douglass threatens a
slave insmreclion, together with an invasion
of all the colored races of the west indian
and south american islands, to tear up and
destroy everything american, and slay with
out remorse every white man. the writer
of this heard him more than once broach this
doctrine.” we would like the irish ameri
can to point out one recorded speech of f.
d.’s, containing an avowal of such doctrine.
we confess we have never heard nor read
such threats coming from him, and hardly
think that it can be produced. it is very con
venient to assert; now for the proof.
mr. l.’s recommendation that mr. garrison
be attainted as a tiaitor, besides being uncon
stitutional and anti-iepublican, comes with an
ill grace from him, being himself an exile for
advocating a dissolution of the british union,
(great biitain and ireland;), and speaking as
he does in the most eulogistic terms of
o’brien, mitchell, meagher, and others who
are attainted as traitors and doomed exiles for
threatening the british united kingdom with
insurrection, and an invasion of all the race
of sympathizers.”
it is a fact, that a parchment union exists
i between england and ireland. it is also a
i fact, that a written compact exists between
the north and the south and it is equally a
1 fact, in morals, that tbe support of good men
to |such unions depends upon wheiher they
promote civil, social and rekgiuua liberty, and
secure individual and conventional rights.—
it was ard is the opinion of messrs. o’brien,
mitchell, meagher, and compatriots, that the
union of england with their native country
was and is fraught with evil; that it enables
the few (whom they rightfully denounce as
j traitors to their country) to trample upon and
i tyrannize over the many, for which they re
j ceive the title of “good loyal subjects to their
i rightful soveieign.” they believe that the
union is abominable and intolerable, and that
the people have a right to dissolve it by any
ineaus providence has permuted them to have
control of, and if failing, it shall not be lor
want of their support to the death, if neces
sary, as a sacred duty to their country, to
their countrymen, and to their god. how
noble —what exalted patriotism even he
who holds that no reform is worth the spilling
of one drop of human blood for, must feel m
the inmost recesses of his heart an admiration
for that devotion with which they offer up
themselves upon the altar of their country’s
hcerty. for my part, i love to dwell upon
their memories whilst they yet live, and be
lieve that they will be honored for their hero
ism as long as there is a heart to leel, a head
to dictate, a hand to write, an eye to see, or
i ail ear to hear the english language, what
ever may lie the views of its possessor in re
lation to mural or physical suasion. who
believes them to be fanatics’ who that they
i are enemies to or obstacles in tbs way of
1 their coentry’• enfranchisement* the no
bler heart give* the lie to the baser tongue*’
of the loyalist who uttera it. where ia the
irishman who dares say that they should be
attainted as traitors* they might troly say
to such—no, we are not traitors but in our
ardent lote to our country, we proclaim him
one' messrs. garrison, douglas? and com
patriots believe that the unhallowed and ini
quitous union entered into between the north
and south, is fraught with evil; that it ena
bles the few (300,000 slaveholders) to traro
t pis upon and tyrannize over the many, (non
slaveholders and 3,000,000 slaves.) they
want no other weapons than truth, “the coals
of which they scatur broadcast over the na
lion’s heart,” together with the influeuce and
testimony of good humane men, such as they
1 believed father mathew to be, who hate
slavery, as well as other evils, and are wil
1. ling at all times to give their voices and influ
ence against it, regardless of indignant
frowns” or any amount of odium that may be
5 cast upon them—men who would rather be
right than popular, consistent than comforta
ble. they also believe that this union is
abominable and intolerable; and, by hypothe
sis, that if the revolutionary fathers of this
1 country were right in throwing off by physical
force an oppression which, when compared
with american slavery, one hour's endurance
of the latter is more than ages of the former.
then ate the slaves and all sympathizers,
without respect to color or division of race,
justified in using the same means (all others
failing) to remove slavery.
these are parallel cases they have points
j parallel and equi-distant, are situated in the
same plane, run parallel, equidistant, and
therefore must be equal. can you approve
the one, and condemn the other 7 can you
adjudge mr. o’brien and compatriots as
worthy of all praise, for advocating the disso
lution of oppressive ties, and condemn mr.
garrison and compatriots, for the same thing*
can these be fanatics, and those escape 7 can
one party be enemies to what they profess to
desire, without subjecting the other io the
same charge 7 the mercenary, time-serving,
truculent, scribbling suppliant must be aware
of its falseness whilst he pens it. the
memory of the fearless champions of univer
sal freedom, whose exalted patriotism impels
them to be loyal to right, to humanity, and
to god, rather than to compacts and to kings,
to ties and tyranny, both transand cis-atlantic,
will be cherished and perpetuated; while that!
i of their traducers will rot w ith their w orthless
carcases. in regard to the particular of the
boston abolitionisis, i differ alike from the
editoi of the i. a. and his correspondent.—
'from the previous writings of father ma
i thew, they had a right to invite and to expect.
j him to be present at their gathering, and re
peat his testimony against slavery. they
j had no right to presume that one bearing such
a reputation as a reformer and a christian
would he deterred either by indignant
frowns” or any amount of odium that he
might have been subjected to from advocating
anything that his convictions urged him to
subscribe to, and bate his breath, and cringe
his knee.
they supposed, very naturally, that to all
such frown and odium, he would exclaim
“we speak the truth, we will be iteard,
though all creation crack,
we will not bate a single word,
or take a letter hack.
we speak the truth, and what care we
for hissing and for seem,
whilst some faint gleaming we can see
of freedom’s coining morn!
let liars fear —let cowards shrink—
let iraitors turn away;
whatever we have dared to think,
that dare wc also say.”
mr. lynch, while condemning mr. o’con- j
nell for bringing the anti-slavery question into
repeal associations, admits his right to have
gone on the anti-slavery platfoim, or to have
called meetings for that special object. if j
mr. o. had such rights, why not father
mathew* did the abolitioniets ask father
mathew to introduce the subject of slavery
in a repeal, temperance, or any other than
an anti-slavery meeting they simply in
vited him to attend and partake of their hos-,
pitality, and thns throw the weight of his in- 1
fluence against slavery. was this asking too
much of the man who called upon his brethren j
in this country to identify themselves with the
j abolitionists 7 was this entrapping or at- 1
tempting to inveigle him into snares 7 i love i
the temperance cause as much as mr. lynch
and others, who seem so solicitous about the
singleness of father mathew’s mission but
i love to see it advocated by men who are so
convinced of its beneficence that they cannot
be frightened by the frowns of lumsellers, or
seduced by the smiles of rumdrinkers into si
lence or indifference.
in reply to pluleleutherus, 1 would re
mark that it is not enough that father ma
thew breakfasted f. douglass in ireland, took
him by the hand in brooklyn, or received a
deputation of colored gentlemen at the irving
house any slaveholder, on a like mission,
might do the same without impairing his
standing with mr. calhoun co. i well
remember how kindly i have been received,
and taken upon the knee and by the hand, and
breakfasted by slaveholders, when a boy, at
the south. this, although an evidence of the
absence of prejudice against color, was not
••more effective testimony against slavery than
the roost labored denunciation, such as mr.
garrison would approve.” 1 suppose that
father mathew has no more prejudice against
a black coat or black boots, than slaveholders
have against the same, or white slaves. it is
worthy of remaik, that mr. l. is opposed to
inconsistencies
yours for liberty and reform j c. h.
joseph barkfr. —most of our readers will
remember the honorable mention made by
our dublin correspondent, r d. webb,
of this english reformer, and those of them
to whom he is personally known, will be
glad to learn of hi* arrival in this country.
he proposes to remain several months, and
w ill pass most of his time in the western
states, in the examination of lands and lo
calities, with a view to a future permanent
settlement in this country w ith a eolooy com
posed mainly of his own class. we bespeak
for him the hospitality and kind attentions of
.»ur friends who may happen to meet with
him. the section of country eventually that
counts him and his companions as among it*
citizens will be a fortunate one. probaoly no
other inan in england exercises a wider in
fluence there among the laboring classes, and
should he remove to the i mied states, he
will not (ail to make himself felt in the wider
field opened to the exercise of his energy sod
talents.— 'a, 8 standard 4
elrrrio!i riot is loiurriixt. kr.— jett
before die <»pcnm? of ths poll* yesterday morn
ing, some convention commenced between
some persons in a crowd, sr»d a man who ex
pressed his intention to vote the emancipation
ticket. at tins moment, paul .seymour,
publisher of the examiner, who was stand
ing near by, raised his bat from his herd and
accidentally dropped some eb-etton tickets on
the ground while stooping to pick them up.
he was assaulted, and as be rose he made an
effort to escape, but was followed by several
who struck him with sticks as he ran. de
fore reaching the opposite side of the street,
mr. seymour succeeded in getting a revolver
out of his pocket, and turning round, he shot
mr. preslev means in the breast he wa?
immediately knocked down and stamped and
beaten until he was senseless, when he was
earned into a house near by. mr. a. j. bal
lard, who was near by, rushed to t!>c assis
tance of mr. seymour.aod discharged a pistol
but without effect, at mr. jos. selvage, who
was kicking mr. seymour. selvage then
picked up seymour's pistol, which was ly
ing on the ground, and discharged it at mr. j
ballard,|who was in few momenta there
after knocked down and had his head severe
ly cut. during the melee several pistols
were discharged, and a boy some 14 or 15
years of age. a son of mi. ovid dark, was
shot through the hack. the wound it is
feared, will prove mortal.
mr. means’ wound is quite a severe one,,
although not considered dangerous.—louis
rilie courier. august nth.
blac k dan. the hon. thomas corwin
has been somewhat notorious or a couiplex
j ion so nearly approaching the sable that he
has often been subjected to inconvenience and
even insult io consequence. it now appears
i that another senator belongs to that proscri
bed class. a few days ago the hon. dan’l
w ebster and family went to edgartown, for
the benefit of their health, as well as to tke
a little recieation. on arriving at the hotel
the landlord was sent for to accertain if the
senator could be accommodated. he came,
but casting his eyes upon the swarthy coun
tenance of the “god-like expressd his sur
prise that the driver should bring black men
to his house, and suggested the propriety of
taking him to some of the huts “up back
there.” after some difficulty he was made
to understand that a bona fide senator was be
fore him; and then a change came over the
spirit of his dream. theie was plenty of
room, attentive waiters, an obsequious land
lord, and everything else in readiness that the
heart of man can wish. it ts well for these
honorable gentlemen that they live in the
country, where the color of the skin is not
particulatly objectionable.— rochester adver
tiser.
notices.
anti-slavery lectures and fairs.
frederick dovglvss will visit and lectuie,
and fairs w ill be held, under the management
i of the ladies of the w. n. y. a. s. society,
at the following places in the course of next
month namely
east bloomfield, lecture, sep. 4th.
i trion, lecture. sep. sth.
palmyra, 6th.
victor, 7th.
fait, bth.
oswego, lectuie, thursday and friday,
sept. 13th and 14th.
fulton village, lecture, sunday and mon
day, 16th and 17th.
mount morris, lecture, thursday, 20th.
fair, friday, 21st.
caledonia, lecture, sunday, 23d.
scottsville, monday, 24th.
fair, tuesday, 25th.
honeoye falls, lecture, thursday, 27<h.
fair, friday, 28th.
lockport—day not fixed.
an appettl in behalf of the western
new york anti-slavery fair.
earnestly desiring the abolition of slavery
in this land, and being deeply convinced that,
this result can only be accomplished by renew-;
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned members and'
friends of the western new york anti-slaverv
society, again, make their appeal to the
friends of the slave in behalf of their annual
bazaar, which will be held in rochester in,
december next.
while we have been cheered and gladdened
bv the progress already made, and the good,
already done, and while we rejoice to observe
that liiends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
quarters where we had least expected them,
we still see “the harvest to be great and the
laborers to be lew,” and instead of relaxing
our efforts we are impressed with a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, ana ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
i of advancing this holy cause.—we appeal the
mote boldly to our friends because those for]
j whom we plead cannot plead for themselves.
while we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid,]
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject slavery and
chains, robbed of every right—civil—social—
personal—and political. remembering those
in bonds as bound with them, we desire to
plead their causa as though they were on our
own limbs and the knotted lash were applied
to our own backs.
while to obtain means for enlightening the
i public mind, is the strong motive for holding 1
our annual fair, it is not the only one. a
great amount of good may be traced directly
ito such occasions. many who are now ac
j live workers in behalf of this holy movement
became first interested in it through ihe in
strumentality of those annual exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
the present object of the rochester anti
slavery bazaar is lor the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject of sla
very. recognizing the north siai,(published
in this city) as an efficient anti-slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the funds
raised by the sale of articles at the bazaar
(on behalf of which we here appeal) shall be
mainly appropriated to the suppport ol that
important paper.
we gratefully acknowledge the prompt as
sistance rendered to our last fair by our
friends and coadjutors in various parts of our
own state, wisconsin, and michigan, and we
earnestly solicit their continued co-operation
with us in the good work. that no time may
be lost, we especially recommend to them tue
i immediate jormanon of tew ing circles in their
various towns with a view to making articles
for the rochester bazaar. we would also
lq js connection render our heartfelt thanks
to our british friends for the valuable aid ex
tended by them to our last year’s fair, and
i would agur) warmly solicit their generous
assistance. it due to our iran*-atlantic
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
in our last bazaar we were indebted to them,
and we are persuaded that their continued
co-operation will essentially promote the suc
cess of our approaching december bazaar,and
the advancement of the cause of the slave in
ou \ve°lhopj that the foregoing appeal will
■commend iuelf to our philanthropic atendson
both sides of the atlantic, and that they will
cordially unite with us in the effort here pro
posed
r re#* oot —uigiorkhj* rest
innrrvr* tlw mou,
«s truffle —’ut god’* t*4*«t'
fill up life** little «pan
vv»ib 6.*i-like ilev.ls—it it the te»t
te*t of the htfli burs soul,
an i luftj »nn
the rc.-t is hi*lory’* scroll
of every honored taw—
none i the brave *h*h via the goal!
signed on tehx f of the
afpwi of ike pklladeifkia vaiociauai
the “yy mnrti’s association of philadel
phia” appeal to a benevolent public, and to
the friend? of the slave everywhere, to i»d
them in their ippmarhiaff fair. the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “north star
to those who are familiar with ibe pa?es ol
this paper tt is unnecesary to speak of it*
merit. to those who have not weo it we
may say, that we regard it as one of the very
best auti-slaverv instrumentalities now in the
field.
we are the more interested m it, because
the editor is one ut our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified it y his talents and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a paper devoted to our eleva
tion. we believe and trust that our friends
will give us their liberal aid.
to our own people we look earnestly and
hopefully. sisters, brothers, shall we look
in vain 1 the iron baa entered into your souls.
ye go heavily, bowed down to the very dust,
dispirited, crushed by the weight of oppres
sion. ye hear the taunts of the enemy,
“they are so ignoraat and unrefined! they
are jealous of one other! yes, they unite
but it is only to put down one who is more
intellectual than the mass'’' prove bv the
unerring langutge of conduct that these as
sertions so often thrown in our faces arc ma
licious slanders. sustain f. douglass, be
cause his talents and correct principles de
mand your respect and confidence. sustain
him because it is right to do so, and because
of :he sweet peace the performance of so wor
thy an action will assuredly bring it into your
bosoms.
by martha rcsilll.
in a large apartment of one of the
most ancient and aristocratic-looking
houses in boston, sat the dame ka< hel
dudley. the heavy mahogany tables,
the high-backed chain, with their
elaborate carving and richly embroid
ered cushions, the square mirror with
its massive frame, would have been
sufficient indication of the rank and
wealth of the owner, even if the rich
service of plate, bearing the crest of
that arch foe of the coionies, edward
dudley, had been wanting.
the appearance of the ancient dame
was in perfect keeping with the room.
even at the advanced age of fourscore
years, her face retained traces of great
beauty, but not that serene and hal
lowed loveliness that so often trans
figures, as it were, old age—»-lor the
expression was proud, haughty and
disdainful. it was very evident that
tierce *<n i ungovernable passions had
done far more to mar the superb beau
ty of that face than the hand of tune.
the high but somewhat narrow fore
head, the sharp, keen eye, the promi
nent and well-cut hut determin
ed, haughly-looking mouth, indicated
that she had not tailed to inherit a full
share of the distinguishing character
istics of her race—pride, self-will, and
ambition.
her hair, white with age, was turned
back from her brow, and hidden be
neath a cap of muslin, edged with a
frill of beautiful point lace; a full skirt
of rich gray silk, over which was worn
a gown of the same meterial, open in
front, the corsage fitting tightly over
the stays; a neckerchief of snowy
muslin brought in plaits across the
bosom, and edged with lace to match
the cap; a necklace of heavy gold
beads, clasped by a splendid topaz;
shoes of gray satin, with heels that
would have stirred the anger of the
early puritans, as a plain infringement
of scripture, so much did. they add to
her stature —completed her attire.
it was the eve of christmas, 179—,
aud the anniversary of her marriage.
more than half a century before, she
had pledged her faith to her cousin,
randolph dudley. vet, as she raised
her eyes to his portrait, that filled one
of the panels above the wide, arched
fireplace, there was little in their ex
pression that betokened that either
her heart or its hopes had been buried
in his grave. why should they the
match had been wholly one of interest.
he was the head of the trans-atlantic
brunch of the family. he had given
her wealth, and she had maintained
the interest and honor of the family,
even at the sacrifice of all that was
womanly in her nature, aye, at a sacri
fice from which she felt that his weak
er nature might have shrink, had he
been livi.ig. but as her eye wandered
from his portrait to one which filled the
adjacent panel, her cold glance chang
ed to one of unmingled pride and
gratification. that was the face of
ner proud daughttr isabel, who, judg
ing horn the portrait, inheritea not only
her mother’s beauty, but her indomita
ble pride and amhiiim. during the
revolution, or, whut the old lady al
ways termed “the rebellion of ’77,”
she had resided in england with her
family; and her consummate diplo
macy, aided by isabel’s rare beauty,
had succeeded in winning the latter an
establishment equal to their proudest
wishes. she became the wife of sir
frederick w prospective heir to
the rich earldom ol a——; and now,
as the old dame withdrew her eyes
from the proud features of her daugh
ter, and fixed them on the bed of
gleaming coals that filled the wide
fireplace, a triumphant smile broke
round her withered lips. “but one
life in the way,” she muttered, “and
that a poor, puny, sickly hoy.” then,
as she recalled the contents of her
daughter’s letter, and thought «.f the
declining health of the young earl of
a her face grew si ill more alive
with the workings of ambition, until,
with the fitlul glow of the dying fire
lighting up her haughty textures, she
might have well been taken for one of
those fearlul beldames whose curses,
only a few years before, had been
thought to possess the powei to wither
and destroy.
for some moments she sat thus; then
ringing a small hand bell that stood on
a w-aiter at her side, a demure-looking
servant maid madeher appearance.
“bring me the small ebony casket, that
stands on the right-hand side ot the
bureau in my dressing-room, she said,
scarcely raising her eyes from the fire
the servant obeyed, and, placing the
richly inlaid casket on the table, left the
old lady once more alone. at least,
so the maiden would have sworn, bu
she mistaken. conscience, whosi
voice she had struggled for so man)
i veara to stifle, now stood at her side
supported by memory, waiting the
i hour of heripower.
“i must read my isabel’s letter onct
more,” murmured the old dame, as sh«
drew from tier pocket a hunch of keys
and, selecting one, applied it to the
lock. “let me but live to see mj
plans for her realized, and then’
what was there in that small haske
to cause such a sudden and ghastly
change in that stern woman’s luce
why did that hand, that had seldon
shrunk troin any deed, fall back, as i
paralyzed' why did she cower an<
iremble in her chair, and cast suet
i startled, fearful glances around ilia
solitary room? did she teel th*
f presence of her invisible attendants
i perhaps so, lor it was many moment!
before her face resumed its wonted e*'
presaion.
“the wretch has mistaken th
casket,” she murmured, at length “j
rf iow childish, or my nerves are not a
strong as usual, to-night, ahe con
imued, raising a nchiy-chaaed cup
filled with wme, to her lips. alter i
tew moments sha rose, and walked t«
ihe window, where she stood lor tom*
time, listening to the low wailing ol tb-
mind, ns it swept through the tal
,ranches of the poplere that lined li
.irret ae she tumid sgeiti to h«
chair,there wae eiagtilare sprfseonoi
n*r proud italurea as it the eoui we
struggling to transpierce the io4ur*<
tions of pride sod ambition.
‘‘l bad sworn in my heart oever tc
look upon that face again; but why
should i shrink? has not god him
self cursed the disobedient child? hr
chose his own path—his t«lo d be upon
his own head,’* she murmured, as she
drew from the casket a mmisture, rep
resenting a young and noble-looking
man. in the face was blended the
best features of the old dame and her
husband, but the expression was fat
more noble and dignified calm,
thoughtful, and determined.
there are moments in the experience
of every soul, in which the whole past
seems to be presented at a glance
when all the events of life, its loves
and hatea, hopes and fears, joys and
sorrows, sins, of thought and deed,
daguerreotyped upon its inmost circle
by the unerring light of conscience,
are passed segment after segment, be
fore the startled soul, in colois too dis
tinct to be msitaken.
after long years of case and self
delusion, this hour had come to dame
dudley, and she could not escape its
power. as she gazed upon that pic
ture, it seemed slowly to vanish, or
rather slide aside, and give place to a
series which awoke in her strange
feelings of terror and remorse. one
face, one figure, occupied the fore
ground to them all —that of her only
»on.
there he lay in his cradle, and her
hard, withered bosom trembled at the
memory of that proud hour, when they
told her that she was the mother of a
noble boy.
another slide, and she gazed upon
him at his studies, his dark, thoughtful
eve bent eagerly upon the pages of
his book. then the book was flung
aside with a smile of triumph, and she
almost seemed to hear again his clear,
glad voice, echoing through the rum
bling passages ot the old mansion, as
he played with his sister isabel.
then he stood before her in the flush
of early manhood, a graduate of eng
land’s oldest university, and wearing
the splendid uniform ot an officer in
the service of george 111.
long did the old dame contemplate
this scene; long did she gaze upon her
noble and accomplished child, and
darker and darker gathered the frown
on her brow, as she thought of the
failure of all her proud hopes, and
bitterer than ever were the curses that
her shrivelled lips muttered against
that impious and rebellious spuit ol
liberty that infaiuated even the heirot
her house, and brought, as she deemed
it, shame and disgrace upon their name
and lineage.
slowiy she dropped the miniature
upon her lap, and covered her face
with her hands. fain would she have
closed her eyes against the scenes
which she felt must follow. but the
spell was upon her. again memory
drew the slide, and conscience with
stern finger pointed to the figures of a
young man and lovely maiden. the
british uniform had given place to the
continental blue and buffi, but the face
was still the same, save that the
i-xpression was puithed and intensified
by the influence of the highest and the
holiest sentiment that ran move the
heart of man— love, in its widest and
best significance. as the young officer
drew tue fair girl to him, ai d gazed
earnestly for a moment into her dewy
eyes, the shade of anxiety that had
dimmed her features vanished, and
both young faces glowed with the
bright hopes and still brighter dreams
uf the future.
it was a beautiful picture, that—
such a one as ever fills the heart of
youth with sweet prophecies, and that
af age with sweet regrets.
the dame cast ono glance, and
turned angrily away. “traitor and
trull a fitting match! would to
heaven he had died in his crudle!”
she muttered, sternly.
“woman whispered a “still, small
voice,” “woman she was pure as the
purest dream of they infancy.”
the proud old woman started, shook
and trembled in her chair lor a moment,
then implicitly followed the direction of
hint unerring finger, as it pointed to
the remaining scenes. several seemed
somewhat indismuct in their details, but
she recognised them but 100 well.
there were secret conclaves, in which
her own haughty form was ever fore
most—bribes offered aud vile slanders
forged to effect the ruin of that guilt
less girl. interviews between the
mother and the son interviews in
which she allowed her arbitrary and
ambitious temper to become exaspe
rated to fury by his firm, dignified, but
always respectful bearing; then a scene
of unmitigated infamy, in which that
young girl was seized, gagged, and
consigned to the keepiog of a british
officer, who had long marked her as
tne prey of his licentious passions.
ah! but too well did she know at whose
suggestion the devilish plot had been
contrived. instinctively she cowered
m her chair, and placed her hands
over her ears, while she cast a fearful
glance at the hall door, for she almost
expected to sre her boy enter, and tc
hear again his indignant reproaches
ms wild and passionate entreaties—
•‘mother! mothtr! for god’* sake cleai
yourself, or tell tne what you havt
done with mary w
did she indeed hear those word
again, or w;is it but the wind wailing
ihr<>ugii the old passagesr again she
parted, for clear aud distinct came thai
iuw voice to her heart rather than bet
vars, repeating word for word tht
uitter taunts wuh which she had mock
»d his agony, and the shameiu! slan
ders she had heaped upon the innocent
object of his love.
they patted, she best knew how, t<
meet no mure on earth. she ouct
more raised her head, and drew a 'one
•reath, tor she thought the senes enu
ed, and her trial over. butohewar
nistakeu; on this side of eternity re
named two more scenes.
oue represented s luxuriously fur
iished apartment, at one end ol which
<tood an english officer, gazing, will,
i look of surprise and horror, o<«t un
singled w ih awe, upon the liteles
oiin ol a lovely girl, winch lay stretch
d upon a lunge, the smsll white ham.
nil grasping an imply phial, lahtlit*
lauds nun-
did iot do ii m hil are th«
hints ol >«ajor s to tut said tht
dame, with an effort to recover her
usual self-command.
"thou shall do no murder!* whis*
pared that strange, low voice as the
scene slowly vanished, and in its place
appeared a low, bleak, barren strip
of sandy sea shore, towards which the
slow, unwilling waves crept, as if in
fear. on the right, near the fore
ground, stood major s■■ leisurely
wiping the powder-stnoke from his pis
tol, while he listened to the eager re
marks of a gentleman near him. a
few paces distant, supported in the
arms of one whom she well recognised
as the dearest friend of his boyhood,
lay the dead body of her son, while a
surgeon bent anxiously over him,
watching in vain for the slightest evi
dence of life.
"god in heaven, have mercy on
me!" groaned the guilt-stricken wo
man, us she sunk back in her chair,
while at the same moment came again
that clear, distinct whisper—" thou
shalt do no murder!"
a few hours later, that ancient man
sion was a scene of terror and con
fusion. groups of tenified servants
and neighbors crowded the room, and
repeated to each other, in low whis
pers, the strange terms of the learned
physicians, as they talked of apoplexy
and its cause, for dame rachel dud
ley had looked her last upon the scenes
of earth.
crossing the isthmus.
i laid back under the palm leaves,
looking out of the stern of the canoe
on the forests of the chagres river.
there is nothing in the world com
parable to these forests. no descrip
tion that i have ever read conveys an
idea ot the splendid overplus of vege
table life within the tropics. the river,
broad, and with a swift current of the
sweetest water i ever drank, winds
between walls of foliage that rise from
its very surface. all the gorgeous
growths of an eternal summer are so
mingled in one impenetrable mass that
the eve is bewildered. from the rank
jungle of canes and gigantic lilies, and
the thickets of strange shrubs that line
the water, rise the trnnks of the man
go, the ceiba, the cocoa, the sycamore
and the superb pahn. plantains take
root in the banks, hiding the soil with
their leaves, shaken and split into im
mense plumes by the wind and rain.
ttie zapote, with a fruit the sized of a
man’s head, the gourd tree, and other
vegetable wondeis, attract the eye on
all sides. blossoms of crimson, pur
ple and yellow, of a form and magni
tude unknown in the north, are mingled
with the i -aves, and docks of paroquets
and brilliant butterflies circle thruugh
the air like blossoms blown' away.
sometimes a spike of scarlet flowers is
thrust forth like the tongue of a ser
pent, from the heart of some convolu
tion of unfolding leaves, and some
times the creepers and parasites drop
trails and streamers of fragrance from
boughs that shoot half-way across the
river. every turn of the stream only
disclosed another and more magnificent
vista of leaf, bough and blossom. all
outline, of 'the landscape is lost under
this deluge of vegetation. no trace
of the s.iil is to be seen; lowland and
highland are the same; a mountain is
but a higher swell of the mass of ver
dure. as on the ocean, you have a
sense rather than a perception of beau
ty. the sharp, clear lines of our
scenery at home are here wanting.
what shape the land would be il
cleared, you cannot tell. you gaze
i upon the scene before you with a
1 ne\er-sated delight, till your brain
aches with the sensation, and you
close your eyes, overwhelmed with the
i thought that all these wonders have
been from the beginning—that year
after year takes away no leaf or blos
som that is not replaced, but the sub
lime mystery of growth and decay h
renewed forever. bayord taylor’t
cwr. y‘ jy. tribune.
counsels for the young.— never
be cast down by trifles. it' a spider
break his thread twenty times, twenty
limes will he mend it again. make up
your minds to do a thing and you wilt
do it. fear not if a trouble comes
upon you; keep up your spirits, though
the day be a dark one.
if the sun is going down, look up to
the stars; if the earth is dark, ke#j) your
eyes on heaven!—with god’ spresence
and god’s promises, a man or a child
may be cheerful.
mind what you run after. never
be content with a bubble that will
burst, or firewood that will end in
smoke and darkness. get that which
you can keep, and which is worth
keeping.
fight hard against a hasty temper.
anger will come but resist it strongly.
a spark may set a house on tire. a
tit of passion nay give you cause to
mourn all the days of your life.—never
revenge an injury.
if you have an enemy act kindly to
him and make him your friend. you
may not win him over at once, but try
it again. let one kindness be follow
ed by another, till you have compassed
i your end. by little and little, great
things are completed; and so repeated
kindness wiil soft* n the heart of stone.
w hutever you do, do it willingly.
a boy that is whip’t to school never
learns bis lesson well. a man that is
compelled to work, cares not bow
badiy it is performed. he that pulls
tf his coat cheer.'jllv, strips up his
sleeves in earnest, end sings white he
w oiks, is the man forme.
evil thoughts are worse enemies
har; lions and tigers; for we can keep
-ut of the way of wild beasts, but bad
'bought* win their way everywhere.
the cup that is full will hold<lo more;
seep ycur beads and hearts full of good
bough's, that bad thought* may and
1 io room to enter.
d taele/ w
