Tbe Senate proceeded to the un
finished business, being the resolutions
from the General Assembly of the State
of Vermont, which were presented on
Wednesday last by Mr. Upham
Mr. Chase. —lt was not my purpose,
Mr. President, nor is it my purpose
now, to go into any discussion upon this
motion to print the resolutions from the
State of Vermont. If I understand the
general sentiments of Senators, there is
a disposition to acquiesce in the motion
to print, with very few dissenting voices.
I rejoice, sir, for one, that the prece
dent set in the case of Vermont, some
ten years ago, is now to be reversed,
and that the memorials and resolutions
of the States of this Confederacy are to
be received and taken in the ordinary
course, no matter what may be the sub
ject of those memorials or resolutions.
I should be glad, sir, if I could state
that thffre appeared to be a similar dis
position in regard not merely to the me
morials of sovereign States, but to the
petitions of the sovereign people. But
I understand, sir, that a practice pre
vails here—and I must be permitted to
say that, in my judgment, it is a prac
tice “more honored in the breach than
in the observance”—when a petition
from individuals is presented, to move
the question of reception upon it, aud
to lay that question of reception upon
the table. I trust, sir, that that prac
tice will also be discontinued. For one,
I accord entirely with the Senators from
South Carolina, when they say that it is
better, far better for the people of this
country, that they should understand
distinctly what are the sentiments of the
respective States, and not merely of the
States, but of the people' who make the
States, which compose this Confedera
cy. Let it be understood what the po
sitions upon all sides are; let us under
stand each other distinctly, and then we
shall have the best possible opportunity,
when the positions upon all sides are
clearly and distinctly understood, to
compare those respective positions, and
if possible arrive at an amicable solu
tion of the difficulties that exist; but,
sir, I may be permitted to say, that in
my judgment the path to an amicable
solution of the difficulty does not lie
through criminations and recrimina
tions; it does not lie through denuncia
tions upon one side and upon the other
side; and I inay be permitted to suggest
to my friend, the Senator from Arkan
sas, whether anything is to be gained in
a comparison between the application
of the terms “crime” and “criminals”
on the one side, and the application ol
the epithets “robber” and “assassin”
upon the other? Sir, we gain nothing
in this way. Let us define our posi
tions with candor, with fairness, with
clearness, and with precision, and then,
understanding each other, we shall be
able to determine what course becomes
us as Senators, and what course it be
comes the States ns sovereignties to
pursue.
Mr. President, I may be permitted to
say, and I think it due to the State
which I in part represent here to say,
that Oo menace of disunion, no resolves
tending towards disunion, no intimations
of the probability disunion, in any
form, will move us from the path which
in our judgment it is due to ourselves
and the people whom we represent, to
pursue. Everything of that sort has
lost Us terror; at least I trust it has. 1
trust that no man hereafter is to be
moved from the course which in hi*
-judgment and his conscience »Hs due
le the State and the people whom be
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX-TRUTH IS OFJIO COLOR—
represents to pursue. I trust thot no
mao is to be moved from that deliberate
coarse by any threat, or by any resolve,
from whatever quarter. I trust we shall
pursue a path of rectitude with entire
respect for all the people of all the
States, and for every State of the whole
Union. But having determined upon
what that path shall be, I trust we shall
not be deterred from pursuing U by any
intimidation of any kind, or of this char
acter particularly.
Mr. President, we have had it intima
ted in this debate, that the States of the
South have had some reason to com
plain of the course which has been pur
sued. Now, sir, what is there in our
past histo.y, or in our present history,
which justifies that complaint Let it
be calmly considered, deliberately con
sidered, and then let me again press
the inquiry, what is there in our past or
present history to justify that complaint
Have any States of the South, Mr.
President, lacked their full proportion
of all the honors of this Confederacy
Have they not had their full proportion,
at least, of all the power of this Confed
eracy Do they not at this moment in
this hall, and in the other hall, exercise
all the power, to say the least of it,
which to them legitimately belongs?—
Why, sir, who presides in the other
hall r How have your committees been
consummated here? Under what influ
ence have they been constituted, and
with what purpose have the committees
been constituted here? Have they not
been so constituted, Mr. President, as
to meet the claims, and the extremest
claims, of the gentlemen who represent
the Southern States of inis Union? Has
it not been held here to be a disqualifi
cation, as chairman of a committee, that
the distinguished Senator, even of a
clave State, should maintain, wbat, in
his judgment, was due to the people of
the whole Confederacy ih reference to
this subject? And has it not been held
also to be a disqualification to other
Senators that they maintain sentiments
which are common to the people of their
entire States in reference to this ques
tion of slavery Why, Mr. President,
for my own part, I may be permitted to
say, that in political sentiment I accord
fully with that party which is known as
the free Democracy of the United States
—a party which is sometimes sectional,
but which I trust wiU not remain forev
er sectional, and which had, during the
last canvass, if I may be permitted to
allude to it, nnt merely friends in the
pon-slaveholdiog States in this Union,
but friends in many of the slaveholding
States also—not organizations, but
friends; and in some of the States or
ganizations also.
I will add further, sir, as it is known
to be my position, that I stand ready
and willing to co-operate with that par
ty which is known as the Democracy of
this country, whenever that party takes
such ground on the subject of slavery
as accords with the principles of the or
dinance of 1787.
Well, sir, now let us compare the
positions held “with reference to this
very question, which is exciting debate
and attention here now. Do I under
stand the Senators of the South as say
ing that they are prepared to act with
the Democracy of this country, if
the Democracy of this country take
ground in favor of freedom? Do they
not make it the test of their adherence
to the party, that the party shall respect
what in their judgment are their legiti
mate claims? Most unquestionably
that test is made. Then, sir, is it not
legitimate that a Senator, holding just
as strongly opinions in favor of freedom
as they hold in favor of slavery, that be
should require that the party which is
to command his co-operation and his
suffrages should take the ground which
in his judgment he can reconcile to his
own conscience If it be so, Mr. Pres
ident, in what position do we stand
here? That tests may be made up on
one side, without exclusion from the
party’s confidence and the party’s re
spect, but tests shall not be made on
the other side, but if made in favor of
freedom they shall be ground for such
i exclusion.
Well, Mr. President, I refer to this
matter simply as showing that there is
nothing to complain of, so far as this
House, so far as the other House, so
far as present arrangements are con
cerned. What can be complained of in
the future? What in expected? Why,
sir, it is apprehended that the Congress
of the United States may adopt the prin
jciples of the ordinance of 1787, and
concurred in by the unanimous assent
of all the States represented in the Con
gress of the Confederation, in their ap
plication, not to territory which was
l slave territory, as the territory north
west of the river Ohio is claimed to be,
I but territory which is now free. That
is one of the grounds of apprehension,
i Another ground of apprehension ia r tbat
the Congress of the United States may
determine in their judgment that it is
proper to apply the principles of free
dona; proper tu apply the principles ol
law to the question of slavery in the
District of Columbia; it is apprehended
that the influence and power of this
Government may be placed upon the
side of freedom. Woll, air, what if it
should be? Was that not the precise
i object which was marked out by the
framers of the Constitution? Was it
i not the precise object which was mark
i ed out by those who concurred in ea
tabiiahing the ordinance of 1787? But
we are told that if that crisis arises, it
I must be met by the South. The Seua
tor from South Carolina tells us be
f trusts, in the event that Congress should
adopt any measure of this east, that the
i South will meet the crisis as it ought.
Well, sir, I must say that I concur m
that hope. And how, Mr. President,
ought such n crisis to be met? Ought
it to be met in n spirit of disunion, or
ought it to be met in tne spirit which
governed the deliberations of those who
framed the Constitution? Ought it to
be met in the jpirit of those who framed
the ordinance cf 1787? that spirit which
was then universal in this country—the
spirit which animated the breast of eve
ry gentleman who had a seat in the
Cong res* of the Confederation at that
time.
Mr President, 1 trust, for one—and
it is all that I have to toy on this sub
ject—that whenever this crisis arisip fit
will be met in the spirit of the fathers
of the republic; ana if it be so met, re
ly upon it, Mr. President, there will be
no cause for apprehension; but, on the
contrary, the Union will be cemented,
and the example of this Union will be
made wbat the fathers of the republic
designed it should be made, an example
of freedom to the nations of the earth.
Mr. Clemens next addressed the
Senate at some length. The report of
his remarks is deferred at his request.
Mr. Hale.— I do not intend to occu
py the time of the Senate but briefly;
but, as matters of a private character
wi“ require my absence from the Sen
ate for a few days, I will say a few
words in reference to some of the re
marks made by the Senator from Alaba
ma, [Mr. Clemens.] If he has done
nothing else, be has at least, by bis re
marks, convinced me of one fact, and
that is, that “concession never satisfies
fanaticism.” I wish every Senator frrm
every iree State would take up that re
mark as a text, and tell the timid, the
doubtful, and the wavering, at the
North, that concession never satisfies
fanaticism. I thank the Senator for
that. I hope the North will find it out.
They have felt it ever since the adoption
of the Constitution; but they do not
seem to have practically learned it, al
though they are beginning to do it.
There was another remark made by
the Senator which struck me as some
what peculiar; aud I must say it grati
fied me. There are many timid people
at the North who have looked forward
with excited nerves and trembling fears
at the “wreck of matter and the crash
of worlds,” which they have believed
would be the result of the dissolution ol
this Union. I think they will be ex
ceedingly quiet now, when they find
out that it has already taken place, and
they did not know it, [laughter] for the
honorable Senator from Alabama tells
us it is already dissolved.
If it is not a matter too serious for a
pleasant illustration, let me give you
one. Once in my life, in the capacity ol
a justice of the peace—for 1 held that
office before I was a Senator, [laugh
ter] —I was called on to officiate in uni
ting a couple in the bonds of matrimo
ny. They came up, and I made short
work of it. I asked the man if he would
take the woman whom he held by the
band to be hjs wedded wife; he replied,
“to be aure I will; I came here to do
that very thing.” I then put the ques
tion to the lady whether she would have
the man for her hdsband. And when
she answered in the affirmative, I told
them they were man and wife then.-
She looked up with apparent astonish
ment, and inquired, “Is that all?”
“Yes,” said I, “that is all.” “Well,”
said she, “it is not such a mighty affair
as I expected it to be, after all.”—
[Laughter.] If this Union is already
dissolved, it has produced less commo
tion in the act than 1 expected.
The honorable Senator says that he
speaks for the whole South. I remem
ber once hearing a Senator say on this
floor that there was not anybody here
who had a right to speak for the whole
South. It is a pretty large section of
country, comprising fifteen States, and
he would not recognize the right of any
one man to speak for fifteen States. 1
do not claim the right to speak for the
whole North, or any considerable part
of it—only for a very small portion of
it —but it lies a good ways north.
And Fwant to say a word with regard
to a remark which fell from the lips ol
the honorable Senator which I have of
ten heard before, but have never taken
the trouble to answer here; and I would
not attempt to answer it now for any ef
fect it might have at home, but sitting
in silence here and permitting this re
mark to pass ijnanswered and unnoticed,
it may be supposed that there is some
justice in it.
I The honorable Senator spoke of the
mechanical population, the operatives
in the factories of the northern States,
as slaves; and it is not a new remark
i here. I have heard it in private con
vernations, and I have been very kind
ly told by individuals who professed to
have, and had no doubt a real and ear
nest desire to give roa instruction on
the subject, that our factory population
would not bear a comparison, not only
in the amount of physical and animal
comfort they enjoyed,but in intelligence
I and good breeding, with their southern
i slaves. 1 have had that information
given me by gentlemen, members of this
body, in private conversation, and re
i marks of that character, are eo frequent
i ly made that it certainly becomes me,
i living in one of the villages composed of
thin population thus denounced and vil
lified, to say a tingle word, not in vin
dication, but in illustration of the char
acter and position of that much misun
derstood and misrepresented class of
our population.
And, sir, my honorable colleague sit
ting on the other side of the Chamber,
[Mr. Norris,] lived in a village
constituted, end now mdse i n one of j
the largest and most flourishing villages
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 1850.
legrity in any I wish him to
rise in his place and set the Senate right.
The village in which I live has about a
thousand female operatives employed hi
manufacturing eßabltijfMaciifs. In that
village there are, a* n» man/ other of
thoee villages, bi snks for savings, and
the amounts deposited there exceed
$300,000; and Uiunkl will be justified
in saying that more than oee-half of the
whole sum is depend*)! kv these very
“slaves” as they as» called. And who
are they? They.ardyn a great meas
sons living remote from the places
where the factories are located; -and
when poverty or disease, or death or
misfortune, in any shape, visits the
homesteads of these families; when pal
sy seizes upon the frame of the aged
or calamity in any form comes
as a visitation from Providence, these
young women, leaving their homes
where they were born and nurtured,
come down to these villages, and, by
industry, economy, and prudence, gen
erally succeed in making quiet, and
happy, and comfortable, the declining
years of those parents they have left
behind. I will do them the credit here
to say, that I do not' believe, search the
country through, from the Aroostook to
our southern boundary, that you can
find in any class of society, (I do not
care who they are, or bow worthy, ele
vated, and -cultivated they may be,) an
equal number of females of purer moral
deportment, higher intellectual cultiva
tion,- or who better understand all the
duties belonging to private and social
life and the domestic relations, than
these same much-abused factory girls.
The character of the male population is
equally worthy. They are industrious,
prudent, thriving, intelligent, educated,
and moral. They are the pride and
glory of New England- I would like
to have any man (I do not care who he
is, chivalric, bold, and intellectual as
he may be) go into one of these factory
villages and teli that population they are
slaves. I am willing to compare this
papulation with the population of the
South, leaving the slaves out of the
comparison altogether, and taking the
masters; and then see on which side ol
the scale the intellect, the intelligence,
and all the virtues which adorn the hu
man character, will be found. Sir, il
it would not be found on tbc side ol
these factory operatives, you would
have to produce a higher standard liijMi
has fallen under ray observation any
where, North or South.
I de not say this to court popularity,
for I think, if I have not preyed any
thing else, I have proved that I am not
a great worshipper of that.
I take occasion to say. that I do not
know a population anywhere, North or
Suuth, against whom charges of this
character might not be brought with
equal justice as against the manufactur
ing population of New England. There
never w as a people more misunderstood
than they who have been compared by
the honorable Senator to the slaves in
those States where that institution is
tolerated. I have said enough of them,
sir. With one other remark I leave the
subject.
The honorable Senator from Alaba
ma says we have clubs and societies in
the North which issue pamphlets and
send out lecturers to preach murder to
the filaves, and to instigate them to vio
late the wives and daughters of the
slaveholders. Sir, I have been some
what conversant with the movements of
the anti-slavery society of the northern
part of the country. If ever the first
letter of that character has been print
ed in any northern State, I must say
that it has escaped my observation. I
do not stand here as the advocate of any
of these organizations; Ido uot belong
to them; but I do not say this to avoid
responsibility, but speak of it as a mat
ter of fact. 1 have never known a sin
gle society, large qi- small, male or fe
male, composed of men, women, or
children, who have not utterly disclaim-?
ed everything of that kind, and that
have not put forth a solemn warning to
everybody that had anything to do with
them, that they should not preach insur
rection to the slaves. On the other
hand, they have invariably been in
structed to teach th«tn to refrain from
everything like violence, aod that it ia
their duty to bow with meekness and
submission to a power which they can
not resist, and to put forth all their en
ergies and efforts in sending up from
their degradation and misery tbeir sup
plications to Him who has avowed him
self to be the God of the oppressed.
I have never seen such a publication
as that—never. I have never heard
such a sentiment advanced in any pub
lic assembly, or stich a prayer offered
up from any pulpit; but, on the contra
ry, a different course of conduct is uni
versally inculcated, so far as 1 have any
knowledge of the matter; and if there
be such associations as the Senator has
spokfen of, I know nothing of them.—
He has a much more intimate knowl
edge of what i* going on in the northern
States, if he i* advised that what he
speaks qf j* tru*, than I have. Hav
ing said thus much, I will leave the
subject.
I do not propose again to go into tbe
question of the dissolution oftbe Union,
but I do join in the wish and hope ex
pressed by tho Senator from Ohio [Mr.
Chase] that gentlemen wifi come out
and let us know what they want. And
having toM us that concession will not
satisfy fanaticism, 1 treat that no more
concession will be asked for. Let us
understand what wa want, and then if
3 1 -rjrtmm r rsnurr*- '--nr-
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
jr® a i
w* cannot aim to unite) let u* agree
to differ.
rift. BtrrLEa.—l bad no idea ©flak
ing any part in this debate, except s«
far as to suggest the propriety of print
ing the resolutions, intending to take
another occasion to discuss the topics
which bare been brought under discus
sion in this unexpected debate. Bnt,
sir, the gentleman from Vermont, the
other day, indulged in a very wide
range of debate, so far as regards one
of tm be thought proper
to bring wihin the scope of bis remarks.
He (Hamssed all the doctrines connect
ed with* the organization #f territorial
government, and uttered many senti
ments well calculated to arrest atten
tion—euch as seemed to provoke a reply.
Tke gentleman frem Ohio, this morn
ing, in a somewhat prepared effort, 1
think, he* come forward, and has avow
ed doctrines which in their tendency
and operation cannot be disguised; and,
sir while he has admonished us to cul
tivate harmony, and while he and ci
thers have given us homilies on the val
ue of this Union, he has avowed senti
ments, and, not only on this occasion
but on others, has inculcated doctrines,
which will sow broadcast the seed of
discord—such as make odious and ar
rogant distinctions between different
sections of this Confederacy. His doc-j
trines would seem aim at the dis
franchisement of the southern section
of the Union, both through the action
of the Federal Legislature and under
the organization of parties. It is not
mere sentiment, but a scheme that lie
insists on to carry eut his plans of op
eration. He presumes on an increas
ing majority in the North and a minor
ity in the South, as 1 shall show by his
expressed sentiments. 1 cannot there
fore allow him to preach decent moder
ation, when 1 know he has, with others
ultimate designs—designs which I will
not allow him to disguise, under the
forms and professions of moderation.
He avows openly that he will submit
to no compromise, and will assimilate
to no party that will pot recognize as a
basis the free-soil principles; "in other
words, to form a party to be known as
free Democracy—a party that puts un
der the ban slave-holders as tainted
partners in the association. He speaks
of the South as having held the offices
of the Confederacy, and he avows doc
trines that will hereafter, by way of re
tfiliation, disfranchise them in the fu
ture unless they shall come to terms to
be prescribed on the basis which he has
taken for party organization. I have now
a letter before me, which I shall have
occasion to refer to, hy way of verifying
all that 1 have said; a letter in which he
openly avows his relianee on the minor
ity of southern interests, and, accor
ding to my view, on southern defection;
what he calls desertiou, I would call
treason. His self-sustaining numerical
strength 1 suspect is «t the bottom of
his sublime political morality. He
aims at certainty on the disposition of
submission by the South to the doc
trines which he has avowed. Confi
dence has been inspired by the desire
of the South to preserve the Union, and
its past history somewhat sanctiooe the
assumption. Sumnted up in a few
words, he calculates upon the uncon
ditional submission of one aection in
submitting to the organization of par
ties to be made exclusively by another
section; with kind and gentle allowan
ces, however, for desertion from the
southern ranks for the sake of the pri
zes of office. But, sir, for fear 1 might
do the honorable gentlemen injustice, 1
will, before I sit down, read extracts
from a letter, which seems to have beep
prepared by him with the cere of one
avowing a sofeqin creed- It is a creed
that soars to fhe heavens in its doc
trines, bnt looks to the earth for its re
wards. Philanthropy prescribes* the
latitude of its boundaries, whilst sel
fishness contracts the serpe of its oper
ation; philanthropy whose center is
everywhere, and whose circumference
is nowhere, but whose practice is to be
found, in the sordid appropriation of
office property.
Allow me to say that I am naturalist
enough to know that it is not the purest
bird that flies the highest. It is said of
the condor that it alights in the atmos
phere of the snow-capped Andes, and
yet is it not true that it is a bird that
lives upon the corruption of the earth?
These gentlemen, who are so sublime
in their morality, when they descend
from the elevation which their theory
aspires to, to the practical application
of their doctrines, are ready to deprive
us of the soil that has been won by the
common blood and common treasure of
the country—are ready to appropiale to
themselves the offices and their emolu
ments, under the organization of parties,
and under the Constitution of the Uni
ted States, thiiure which ought to be left
open to all. Even Federal eligibility
to office has been assailed, if it should
be claimed by n southern man.
Sir, they go farther, and tell you in
so many words, that acquiescence in
their proposition* will not satisfy them;
for that was the true import of the lan
guage of the Senator from New Hamp
shire. He says, that concessions that
have taken place swell the spirit of
fanaticism that it has an idea! excel
lence which will not compromise with
sny thing but the sublimity of an unli
mited morality. They ere to attain
this point hy progressive aggression,
and to hold those who defend their
rights ai responsible for the Union.
Those who have done the wrong have
SnlL 41 J°uT!£U ,h
never assailed the Union; thev have
cherished it, and made aU the compro-
si mines to preserve it; and I My now,
the Northern gentlemen hold the acts
son of its Rite in then* own hands
i They can Oleee them on the cords or
this Union by going on »n their reck
less aggression, or stay their hand and
i do justice. They are the moving par
ties, and in Jupiter Stator they may
find a deity worthy of worship; but it
they go on, they may presume too
j much on the arts of Mercury. The
j course which has been advertised is
r rebuking commentary on Southern ae
quiescence in wrongful aggression.
Those who have been guilty of the
|g wrong shall net hold liable for the
conseqrences, nor shall they assign me
a position to the issues which they have
made. If they have brought the Un
ion in jeopardy, they shall not throw
the odium of disunionists on the de
fending and innocent party. Politicians
have played with this subject as an
element of political game, and that
game shall have the true parties to it.
I say it now, and with perfect sin
cerity and candor, that the people of
the State which I represent, and the
i people of the southern States in gen
oral, have never taken measures thus
f far with the view or wish that they
should result in disunion. Igo further
and say that their acquiescence in com
promise is a refutation of the charges
that have been made against them
i What compromise that did not require
a sacrifice of right and honor, has not
been aceeded to on the part of the
South? What compromise that she
entered into, has she violated? These
are questions that may be obviated by
evasion or denunciation of a self-sus
taining majority, but honesty will only
answer them before the tribunal of his
tory. The past cannot be changed,
and it will go to show that the South
has made sacrifices to form the Union,
and has submitted to unequal compro
mises to preserve it. The North has
presumed on tnat love of union to
sanction their aggressive and arrogant
pretensions. No, sir, the history of the
Confederacy, and especially the history
of this question, will show a degree of
submission to compromise that astonish
es me in the review of it. I shall not
go further than to speak of the history
of this question wish my connexion with
it, the true element which has formed
the basis of their course. Will the
gentleman inform me what measure of
compromise has ever been proposed to
us, if it were an honorable and just com
promise, that has been rejected b) us?
When it was proposed to extend the
Missouri compromise to the Pacific, by
whom was that proposition made? It
was made by one side, and promptly
and even scornfully rejected by the oth
er. It was refused, even with the wan
tonness of rejection. It was refused on
the assumption that some of our own
men would join in the repudiation. By
implication that compromise has been
supposed to give to the South, in all ter
ritories south of 36® 30/ entire control.
Whilst it in terms excluded slavery
north of that line, it recognised the
right that it should exist, if the people
thought proper, south of that line. Ex
perience has shown that the temptation
to disregard it depended on the power:
of doing* so, on a minority made so by
its operation. It has served the office
of taking power from the South and
placing it in the hands of those who
have not magnanimity and justice to
observe its obligations. It has been
but a dam of sand that has given way to
the tide of insolent power. When the
questions growing out of a proposition
to give governments to our Mexican ac
quisitions assumed a critical aspect, an
honorable effort, without regard to sec
tions, was made to settle them forever,
and to take them out of the arena of po
litical gamesters. That effort resulted
in the Clayton bill. It was framed to
save the honor of the South. Many
thought her rights were not secure un
der it. I will not state its terms. It
proposed an honorable compromise,
without*improper concession. What
baa been its fate? The South general
ly acquiesced in it; and, I solemnly be
lieve, for the sake of the Union. Does
this look like a desire or design to dis
solve this Confederacy? No, sir, it
was anything else. It was a sacrifice
to the very name of the Union. It pro
voked a confidence that may be fatal.—
I fear it has given rise to a delusion,
that there are no limits to which the
North may not go.
Another bill was brought in by the
honorable Senator from Wisconsin,
well guarded in its provisions, in re
lations to New Mexico and California,
proposing merely to put it in the pow
er of the courts, by writs of habeas cor
pu» t to test the legality of the title by
which slaves are held. It wm assumed
on that occasion that it conceded too
much to the South, and gave them the
advantage in the issue. Was not that
going far in the spirit of compromise
Could anything more strangely, show
the wantonness of non-slaveholdtng
arrogance? That was set aside, and
a clause with a snare under it was in
sisted on hy northern gentlemen as
giving all that would settle the ques
tion; In other words, a clause to cover
the Wilmot proviso. Sir, the com
promises, have all been one way—into
tke lion’s den—nulla vestigia retrorsut*.
But I shall go further and say, we
have violated none of the compromises
into which we have entered, whilst we
have rejected none that have been
offered to as on honorable terms.
Is this not a proposition full of mean
ing? It may be that tke cup of con
ciliation is exhausted. I shall say
nothing of that, X will not utter men
ace, nor will I indicate the end of this
WHOLE NO. 169.
fearfiri question. We have acceded
to all that would preserve oug, honor
ia every compromise that banoeen pw
posed. Indeed, we have evfoced a
desire to let this question pam by, on
I a point of honoa, and W ffentlemea
come out and accuse thoee Fs|o have
maintained those compromises, and
l manifested a desire to 'b***
right, of a de sign to sevtt the Union.
Oh yes, we are the people, they My,
who have shown a disposition to sever
the different portions of this Union! it
is tke wolf taking offence at the lamb,
because he contradicted him in, saying
he bad net mudded the water in drink
ting below him.
The Smith, at tba time of the forma
tion of thin Confederacy, made sacri
fices, and deprived herself of the scep
tre. J She petted with the sceptre when
she consented to the formation of this
Union, when she gave up to the North
the power of regulating commerce by
a mere majority. But I shall go no
further into the history ef thin matter at
present. I shall check myself, so far
as the tendency of this argument is
concerned; but I have much to say on
it, and I go back to the honorable Sen
ator from Ohio. The gentleman from
Ohio is a Senator; he represents, in
part, one of the largest States in the
Confederacy, and, sir, his opinions are
to be respected. lam Mtisfied that he,
like many others, acts nnder the pres
sure of an ex parte constituency. They
are exponents of those who have never
looked except upon one aide of this
question. Many who come here are
committed exponents of irresponsible
masses. They are facile aad publican
politicians, who feel tbemselvea bound
to the law of obedience. They act in
a channel that popular prejudice and
irresponsible persons have made for
them, and yet they talk of slavery.
They get their places her* by slavish
submission. They violate tba Consti
tution before they come here, hy vows
on an unconstitutional altar. At for
any effect that might be produced by
mere speaking, 1 would much rather
address the people than their repre
sentatives. The people have no temp
tation to do what is wrong. They
might he affected by a dispassionate
appeal to their judgments. At least
they could be approached as a tribunal
that could review its judgments. They
could have no interest to maintain an
adversary position, where trom feeling
and duty they might wish to become
friends. Politicians will play with
topics as a {tart ol a game, which the
people would shrink from with horror
could they see the consequences. I
think it may be safely Mid that those
who yield most to transient popular
prejudice, and indulge in habitual ex
pressions of love to the people, would
betray them soonest if there were an
adequate temptation. An accomodat
ing spirit is generally associated with
a facility in morality.
There are occasions on which I
might expect statesmen and patriots to
elevate themselves above those irres
ponsible influences, but the day has
passed, 1 am afraid, when such men
are to be found. And in making this
statement 1 will not tear away one leaf
from the history of the North. I will
not deprive the North of an iota of
credit that, is her due. The past is
secure, and I speak of it only in an
historical point of view; but I will not
sit here and hear doctrines expressed
which in their consequences roust de
grade a portion of the Confederacy,
and deprive posterity of the rights
which we have ourselves inherited.
I will ask the Secretary to read a
fitter of the Senator from Ohio, be
cause, as 1 have attributed to it an in
fluence, the letter itself will furnish the
evidence upon which I have based it.
The Secretary read as follows:
Cincinnati, 1849.
Mr dear Sir: I observe indications
in various quarters of a. disposition on
the part of influential gentlemen, to in
terpoea difficulties in the way of cordial
union between the free democracy and
the old line democracy, by insisting on
conditions to which the latter cannot
agree without the sacrifice of principles
which they hold far dearer than party
success.
The free democracy holding in com
mou with the old line democracy the
cardinal and eslfentiai doctrines of the
democratic faith, believe that the time
has come for the application of thoee
doctrines to the subject of slavery, as
well as to the subjects of currency and
trade. Tbey believe that slavery is
the worst form of despotism. The
ownership of one man by another is the
most absolute subjection known to hu
man experience. No Democrat who
has any real lining faith in the great
cardinal doctrine of democracy, that
all men have equal rights by nature,
and that the only legitimate object of
government is fe maintain and secure
these rights, oan doubt that alavebold
ing is grossly inconsistent with demo
cratic principles.
Heretofore the slave power was con
tent with retaining slave territory ea
slave territory; now it seeks to subject
free territory to the blight of slavery.
This enormous pretension baa led to a
more general examination of the con
stitutional relations of the National
Government to the slave system; and
the examination has fastened the con
motion on the minds of thousands and
hundreds of thousands, that the gov
ernment of the Union ia hound to pro
hibit slavery tn the territories, and to
exert all ha legitimate and constitu
tor! P«wers to limit, jocalizs, and
discourage it, and especially to pro
the sphere of its exclusive jurisdiction.
This is the conviction of free democracy
They have announced it over
and over again, and are pledged to gov
ern their political action by it. This
pledge they will undoubtedly redeem.
Now t what is to hinder the reception
of this faith by the old-line democracy
What shall prevent their bold and frank
avowal of it? What should interfere
with manly and straight-forward action
in consistency with it?
I can see but one thing—the alliance,
so called, with the slaveholders them
selves—the fear of losing their political
support and influence in a Presidential
•lection.
Now, it is very certain that no con
sideration of mere political expediency
ought to induce the democracy to refrain
from carrying out its own principles;
and it seems to me equally certain that
political expediency and duty at this
time coincide.
For, what will be the cost to the de
mocracy of the alliance of the slave
holders in a Presidential campaign?
To determine this question, it must
first be seen what the slaveholders de
mand as the price of their alliance.—
This demand is easily stated.
It is non-intervention upon the sub
ject of slavery. That is, northern men
may think and act at home as they
choose, and southern men likewise;
but when northern men and southern
men meet at Washington, either in ex
ecutive or legislative capacities, they
must not take any action against slave
ry, but leave the slaveholders at liber
ty to introduce slaveholding wherever
they can.
This, if I understand it, is the ground
of the Washington Union, which has
been approved by a number of Demo
cratic prints in the tree States, and uni
versally, I believe, as well it might be,
in the slave States.
Now, it is my deliberate opinion that it is
utterly impracticable to unite the democracy on
this platform in the free States.
The free Democracy can never accede to it,
and maintaining, as they do, the cardinal doc
trines of democracy, and occupying, as they
will, a bold and independent position on the
•lavery question and every other, the people
who love boldness and independence will ral
ly around them in such numbers that it will
be uuerly impossible for .compromising de
mocracy to carry a respectable number of the
free States, and they must, as heretofore, di
vide the free Slates with compromising
Wbiggiem. Success, therefore, on the non
intervention platform is, for the old ueraocra
cy, quite out of the question.
The free democracy believe in non-inter
vention, auch as the Constitution requires;
non-invention by Congress with the legisla
tion of the States on the subject of slavery.
But neither the history of the country, nor
the Constitution of the country, warrants non
intervention by Congress with slavery in erri
toriea and elsewhere, without the limits ol
any State but within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the National Government. Slavery in
auch territory or places cannot, under a stricl
construction of the Constitution, exist at all.
Slavery in such territory or places ought ai
least to be prohibited by Congress.
I have regretted to see certain expression*
attributed to John Van Buren, calculated tc
revive unpleasant feelings—such as, that the
national democratic party is in progress of re
generation—in progress, obeying that law ol
progress which all ita doctrines recognize Iron
the old platform of nonintervention to the Jet
fersonian platform of slavery reslrictio anc
discouragement. It seems to me that th(
party io the free States ought at once to ad
vauce to the Jeffersonian ground, and then
unite in indissoluble phalaux wiih their breth
ren of the free democracy. Let the party ir
tbe lave States advance to the same ground
Pi haps, in advancing, some may deser
and go over to the Conservatives. Possiblj
in the slave States, the party must go into i
temporary minority. Let it be so. The com
pensation will be found in the concentration
unanimity, the invincibility of the united de
mocracy in the free States. Triumphant in tht
free States, and strong, by the strength o;
principles, even in the slave Stales, the De
mocracy can elect its national candidates, un
der auch circumstances, in despite of all op
position.
Such are my views. I feel a strong confi
dence that time will prove their correctness.
I am a democrat, unreservedly, and I fee
earnestly Bohcitous for the success of the
Democratic organization and the triumph ol
its principles. The doctrines of the demo
cracy, on the subjects of trade, currency, and
special privileges, command the entire assent
of my judgement. But I cannot, while bold
ly asserting their principles in reference Uj
these subjects, shrink from their just applica
tion to slavery. I should feel guilty of shame
ful dereliction of duty if 1 did. You know
what multitudes now sympathise with me:
aod bow truly. It is this very fidelity tt
democratic principles which makes it impos
sible for them to compromise with slavery.
What a melancholy spectacle it would b*
to see the democratic patty embracing defeal
by auch a compromise, and thus making it
necessary for hundreds of thousands of the
truest Democrats in the land to choose be
tween adhesion to party and adhesion tc
principle!
The counsels of the Washington Union
tend to this, and in my judgement cannot be
safely followed. I shall be very glad to hear
from you on this subject, and meanwhile re
main, truly your friend, S. P. CHASE.
J. G. Bseslin, Esq.
Mr. Butler. Now, sir, who ate in favor
ef union and who of disunion, according tc
the sentiments there expressed. The gentle
man says it makes a sectional party in, the
programe of his party organization. The
basis of his party is to proscribe the South,
or to presume on desertion and treason. Its
minority is the predicate of his whole sage
superstructure of party organization. This
is the emanation of the new-light politicians,
who would throw into the shade of their
contrast the statesmen who have preceded
tbem. Those who go over to them are of
the true faith, whilst those who adhere to
their ancient privileges and constitutional
positions are called deserters. Sir, the south
ern man who goes over on this question will
be regarded as a traitorous criminal, who has
Even up hit constituents for lucre. The
mthhasits peculiar institution, and it
the duty of her representatives to defend it to
tire last extremity—it is the defence of our
firesides. If I were to apply a meaning to
the language used by the gentleman, it would
be very different from that which he has
given. Oh, yes, these gentleroeu who are
for taking care of our slaves, who express so
much sympathy for them, who are for univer
sal emancipation, and who cannot listen to
any proposition which falls short of what
thev in their visionary conceptions suppose
will eventuate in the freedom of the whole
human race, when applied to on the part of
emancipated slaves, deny them soil upon
which to rest the soles of their feet. They
preach to the slave his right of rebellion
against his roaster. So long as he can hold
out to him the means of running away, they
are ready and willing to countenance him;
but when they become free, we find on the
part of those gentlemen a hostility equal to
the Jove they professed.
When John Randolph, a distinguished
citizen of Virginia—that State which gave to
the gentleman’s Stale its existence, with that
ordmanoe which has been said to have been
dictated by the very spirit of freedom, whilst
in consequence it has been pregnant with
mischief Mr. Randolph gave freedom to his
•laves, imagining that they week! easily find
piece of refuge in territory made free by
Virginia. Aed what was the fact? They
were driven out of Ohio at the point of the
bayonet. But. sir, if they had gone into the
State ss fugitive*, from their master, in vio
lation of the master’s rights, they would
readily hare found a home.
Mr. Chase. Will the gentleman allow me
to correct him as to a matter of fact! Hie
emancipated slaeee of Mr. Randolph are, at
this day, living in Ohio. Ohio desires a
homogeneous population, and does not desire
a population of varied character. But she
drives no person from her territory at the
point of the bayonet or otherwise.
Mr. Butler. When the emancipated
slaves of Randolph first entered Ohio they
were not permitted to remain. There has
been some alteration made since, I believe, in
the laws of Ohio. Whether they are now
iu that State I cannot say. 1 am merely
s' t ting an historical fact that they were not
allowed to remain upon first entering the
State. The gentleman cannot change the
dtnte of the case by his acsertion, and he need
not attempt to distort the facta, because 1
know the history to be as 1 have stated. Yea,
air, they have proposed snd voted for—
Mr. Hunter. Will my friend allow me
to set him right in regard to this matter 1 1
unueiatand that the executor of Mr. Ran
dolph’s state paid nine thousand dollars for a
farm for these emancipated blacks in Ohio,
and when they went to take possession they
weiti driven off by men armed with guns and
pisijJs, and never permitted to settle upon
the land that had thus been purchased for
them.
Mr. Butler. 1 thank my friend for this
statement; it is a consuming refutation ol
what the gentleman has asserted. They
reached Ohio only under the garb of being
servants; they claimed their civil rights by
appearing to be slaves to those who denounct
slavery, &c. I believe that the only way t<
be received favorably in Ohio is for a man U
represent himself as a runaway slave. Ir
their wondrous philantbicpy they give then
protection if they represent themselves at
runaway Slaves. But the gentleman fronr
Vnginia has given you the true history of thii
matter, and 1 do not stand corrected by any
explanation that the gentleman from Ohio hai
given.
But I was about to allude to the views o
gentlemen in regard to California, and I ahal
have occasion to speak of that hereafter,
have no doubt they suppose that slaveholder
are to be prohibited from carrying their pro
perty there, and herhaps that blacks will b<
excluded altogether. 1 will put the queatioi
to those who propose this sublime doctrine—
I will put it to the gentleman from Nev
Hampshire, and I believe he ia at least candid
I will do him the justice to say this—if th<
South send ten thousand slaves to-morrow t<
a free State, with a view to make them free
shall we not be permitted to do so I do no
believe the gentleman can answer the ques
tion. There ib not, sir, a non-slaveholdinj
State in the Union that would receive ou
slaves if we chose to send them there.
I myself have had an agency in sendioj
some free people of color to Ohio and the
were better oil'under a tolerated existence ii
South Carolina, where their rights woul
not have been invaded by vulgar ribaldry
than in a situation in which they feel all th
effects of exclusion—where freedom is talke
of and where privilege is denied—were phil
anthropy in profession covers oppression.
It is the interference of these pseudo-phil
anthropists which has prevented the master
and mistresses of the slaves from setting ther
free. We cannot do it now, air, for we cac
not send them into those States where th
institution does not exist. Nor can we, a<
cording to the doctrii e of these gentlemer
send th«m to California or New Mexict
Why, air, if they were to go into any fie
Stale, do you suppose they would be tolert
ted What ia to become of these people i
favor of whom there have been such sublim
sermons preached, whose condition is th
subject of such sublime solicitude? Thos
gentlemen have taken the blacks under the
espeeial care. Baneful influences are exerte
over them to make them dissatisfied with th
condition in which they are placed, whik
there is no substantial mode pointed out t
better their condition. The slave, unde
1 such influences, is made a rebel against hi
master, only that he may become an outcai
and a pauper in the midst of hia professe
friends, but in fact real enemies. Incendiar
publications are disseminated among then
and with a view 10 seduce them from thei
fidelity. Why, the very speeches whic
gentlemen make on this floor, I pay for i
part uuder the post office arrangements i
i sending them to my State, that they may b
disseminated and read by or to the blacks
those speeches by which they are to be ren
deted dissatisfied with their condition,
hare no right to quote from the speech of a
honorable gentleman, who declared to m
once that you cannot better the condition c
the slaves as a mass, if the relation of tnasie
and slave could be dissolved to-morrow. Yo
I cannot give them the rights of freemen. Th
j free States have refused it. I speak of Penn
syivania particularly; I do not know hot
j far the remark will apply to the other State:
You give them but the name of freedom, bu
none of us fruits. The condition of the slav
could not be bettered. But the gentlema
has denied that the free States ate by club
and associations making efforts to affect th
condition of the slave and his master. Hot
do so many printed pamphlets find their ws;
in the slave States? How have these incen
diary publications found their way into Soutl
Carolina Bundles of them ba«e been foun
in our post offices. One individual has bee
indicted, but I forbesi alluding to his case
as I wouid not control the administration o
justice.
But, sir, iu the case alluded to, the« i
reason to suppose that a combination ha
been formed to pioduce a revolution in Soutl
Carolina on the slave question. The pamph
lets are now to be found, with an aim tha
cannot be mistaken. They ate incendiar;
publications in every sens£ of the word, aui
written ftom the woesi of motives. There ii
a gentleman (Mt. Babbit) who has gone ti
South Carolina, and there was found in hi
possession large quantities of pamphlets ant
other documents, which were calculated ti
produce a revolution in the South. Hi
stated that he did not design their diasemina
tion, but there they are in the poet office, liki
a torch near a powder magazine, at this day
Mr. Hale. Were they addressed to wbitei
or blacks
Mr. Butler- They were addressed,
suppose, to some of your whites—whitei
who think like yourself. That is the bes
answer i can make.
Mr. Hale. Then there are some person!
of my way of thinking at the South.
Mr. Butler. Yes, there are some whi
travel from your pait of the country, ant
who, having been fostered by our hospitality
have basely taken advantage of us, and com
mittled treason against our institutions. It ii
certain that these papers are sent there witl
a view to be used. 1 do not know whethe:
Babbit is guilty or not. 1 shall make nt
charge.
The gentleman has declared that be is no
aware that any persons are associated foi
the purpose of Modiog these document*. In
deed, I am happy to bear that he does not
but such documents are to be found, and
am sorry to believe that some of these docu
ments have been actually written by some o
those persona who have removed from thi
South to Ohio. That they do write suet
documents under the sanction of an aaaocia
tion, I have no hesitation in saying. Tin
purpose and purport of the whole thing is
these men travel about under the ostensibh
calling of selling drugs, that these miechiev
oua documents shall be disseminated and 1
am sure the gentleman must regard them ai
mischievous, if be believes what be says, foi
be save that he is opposed to interference; am
yet, air, there is interference continually.
I had no idea of taking up the time of the
Senate; but when I saw the gentleman ffotr
Ohio rise bets ie his phum and preach bar
mooy, ttd under dm garb of moderation
cloak bis real feelings, I could not refrain
from making an exposure of.his true attitude
to the issues involved in the discussion.
I shall not say here what the South will
do. The honor aud interests of these States
will be safe now in their own keeping.
Mr. Dav», of Mississippi. Mr. President,
Ido not know that I should have said any
thing upon this occasion but for the tact that
tha Senator from New Hampshire [Mr.
Hale] has made severs! points, and an
nounced them in connection with the isot
that be is about to be absent from the Sen
ate. His speech wss quite in keeping, sir,
with many of the acts I have witnessed on
the pair of that Senator. It was character
istic with him to make a speech upon this
subject just before he wss to leave the Senate,
that he rosy avail himself of it, as I suppose,
in the region he is about to visit, as food for
agitation, and as evidence of bis prowess
upon the floor. On this occasion, he has
taken as his theme the defence of the factory
laborer—the intellectual cultivation and ex
cellent morality of hia cooatituenta; and in
otdor to produce conviction, I thought it ex
ceeding well, quite prudent, I will not any
how necessary. that he should announce thai
it was his colleague, and not himself, who
dwelt among and was to be regarded as ih«
representative of so praiseworthy a popula
tion, so high in the scale ot humanity, so
moral, so intelligent and proper in ail things.
I thought it well, sir, that it was hia colleague
whom the honorable Senator located in tha
midst of such superioi samples of humanity.
Mr. Hale. Will the honorable Senator
permit me to interrupt him I mated that
my colleague resided in one manufacturing
village of the kind I have described, and that
I reside myself in another of the same
kind.
Mr. Davis. 1 thought the Senate* said li
was his colleague who resided among theac
remarkable people; but as he has now cor
reeled the statement, I can only wonder tbi
more that, coming himself from the midst 01
a population so moral, so accomplished, ant
instructed, therefore to be supposed so re
gatdful ot the rights of others, so regardfu
ot' the Constitution as those he has the bonoi
to represent, he should make demonstration!
such as he is constantly exhibiting upon thit
floor. I thought it well, as I understood hia
first, but now it assumes a more dubiouc
form and without the high eulogy which h<
delivered upon that population, and which 1
suppose he is to take home with him, lahouk
have doubted their claims to such and m
numerous virtues. I trust he will take home
with him also the speech he delivered the
other day upon this floor, in which he an
nounced that all those petitions and memorial)
are a mere trick, intended for electioneering
purposes that this agitation iB a mere game
intended to cajole the people that it is all i
very harmless matter; that it meana reallj
nothing, except to keep up an excitement, an<
secure votes to candidates at election me
I hope that the Senator will repeat tha
speech to these people when he happens t<
attend meetings whence these and simtla
resolutions go forth. When the people ii
any quarter of this Uuion are about to bi
lashed into fury against the institutions of tb<
remaining States by the promptings of fanat
icism, and urged to assail that of which the;
know nothing, I hope that he will rise am
tell them how mean a spirit, haw corrupt i
purpose, and how empty are the declaration
which have provoked them to this madness
Let him tell them, as he told the Senato
from Vermont, when he referred to the intro
d action of these reselutions, that it is a con
\enience to get up resolutions of the soi
when a Senator is to be elected. 1 think, sir
this would be far better than any constitu
tional argument, or, if such thing could h
supposed there, than any southern adddres
which could be delivered. I think it woulc
recall the patriotism and the justice even o
the Senator’s own constituency to a sense o
their folly and rashness—recall them iron
their wild war upon the rights of others, am
cause them to reflect how far they had beet
made the unwilling instruments of men
demagogues, seeking to elevate 4 theqnselve
at their expense and the expense of the coun
try, by means of exciung their jealousy am
passiou.
But the Senator makes another declare
tiou which surprises me—not being very wel
informed in relation to his private history—
that he is not a member of any of those as
sociations which are operating in the Norti
against tha institutions of the Souih, and tha
he knows nothing of them. I am glad tt
bear it; and can now understand hisdeclara
tion, that he knows of no associations for thi
purpose of printing incendiary publications
to be circulated at the South. We do know
it, aud it ie strange that he does not. Why
air, the New York Anti-slaverv Society aendi
out more publications, I believe, than the
Senate of the United States. They are sem
now only into the southern States, but, sir
that society has printed numerous publics
tions for the express purpose of circulation u
California and the purpose haa been avowed,
by means of agents aud publications gratu
itously distributed, to prevent slavery frou
being Jmitted into the consiitution of Cali
fornia. v T ot only this, but they are associa
ted in close affiliation whith similar socituei
in Great Britain and Scotland. They ac
knowledge the contributions of those societiei
to be applied to these very objects for wbicti
they are laboring, according to their own
reports. It is very stiange that we, who stand
so far off, should know so much more in re
lation to these matters than the Senator from
New Hampshire. Yet, sir, I am glad that
it is ao—that such is the fact—because it ex
onerates tha Senator from New Hampshire
from much of that capability which we had
heretofore assigned to him.
Mr. President, I always enter into discus
sion of the slavery question with feelings ol
reluctance and only because I am forced into
it by tboae who, having nothing to do with
it, nevertheless indecently interfere in out
domestic affaires here, 1 have done so. Sir,
it is a melancholy fact, that morning uftei
morning, when we come here to enter into
the business of the Senate, out feelings
should be harrowed up by the introduction of
this exciting and profitless subject, and we be
compelled to listen to insults heaped upon
nor institutions. Sir, there is no man who
comes here to represent hie constituency for
high and useful purposes, and who feels upon
himself the obligation of hia oath to maintain
the Constitution of the United States, who
could thus act, from day to day, for the pur
pose of disturbing the useful legislation of
the countiy —for no other purpose than to in
sert another branch into the flame which
every reflecting, sober man now sees threatens
to consume the fabric of out Government.
We of the South atand now, aa we have
always stood, upon the defensive. We
raised not this question; but when raised, it
is our duty to defend ourselves. For one,
air, my purposes are to keep down this
species of excitement, both here and at home.
I know the temper of those whom I repre
sent, and they require no promptings to resist
aggression or insult. I know their determi
nation. It is well and deeply taken, and will
be shown when the crisis comes. They make
no threats againtt any one, and least of all
against tbe Union, for which they have made
such heavy and continued sacrifices. They
know their rights, while they feel their
wrongs; and they will maintain the one,
resent the other, if it may be, will preserve
our constitutional Union; but tba Union
without the Coastiluiion they hold to be a
curse. With the Constitution, they will
never abandon it. We, air, are parlies to
this Union only under tbe Constitution, and
there no power known in the world that
could dictate to my liule State a Union in
which her righu were continually diareapec
ted and trampled upon by an omestrained
majority. The present generator, «r, will
maintain the character their fathers wan.
They well know how to sueiainpM institu
tions which they inherited, even by civil war,
if that be provoked. They will mtieh up to
this issue, aad meet it free to free.
Jhia is our poaitioo; you havo not rtnpeo-
Urn*?tow atoeenid t*' I pat no frith ia
politicians, 1 fret that they raised a
invoked a spirit which the; cannot alto;, and
dare not confront. And ;et I believe that
i the descendants of the Franklins, the Han
cocks, and the Adamses, if the; aaw ear tn
stitntions about tv be destroyed bp s mean
i and captions exercise of the power of dema
gogoes to press to a fatal extremity aggraa
i aions upon oar rigbu by. the North, would
rise op in their strength, and would enforce
the justice and obligations of the Constitution,
r This is no indication of an; confidence which
i I put in their representatives; with them I
i am read; to meet this issue face to free; and
r if the representatives of that people thinh
proper to sow the seeds of dissension, and to
i inflame the passions and prejudices of one
section, whilst the; drive the other fc; ever;
r possible provocation to the point of civil war,
t then all 1 have to say ia, that the represents
i tives of the South, true to their constituency,
i are prepared to meet tbe|issue here and now.
If this is to he the hot-bedof civil war, if from
this as a center the evil ia to radiate through
out our country, here let the first battle be
s fought! If gentlemen come here constantly
to preaa upon us, strip us of our rights, to
move the people of one section of the nation
r to hostility against tha other, I hope that
i those who have brought the eountt; to this
j crisis will meet the first test.
t Mr. President, it is no part of the business
9 of a southern representative here to deliver
panegyrics upon the attachment of his con
t stituenta io*he Union. We have proved our
i love of the union sod aur devotion to it too
often and too long to require such declare
tiona. Let those who feel that it may be
f doubted make their declarations of fidelity to
I the Union we have nothing of the kind to
do. If the State of Vermont chooses to send
1 to the Senate of the United States insulting
r resolutions telating to her sister States, let
i the Senators and Representatives of thai
i State do their duty in relation to them; and
i as I say nothing against a sovereign State, 1
i will only say to thorn Senators that I regret
that Vermont has not now such constitutional
scruples as actuated her in the war of 1813,
I and that she does pot keep her rssolutiom
within her own limits, in this war of aggres
sion, as she attempted to keep her troopt
i during that war.
I regret that I shall have to part with manj
i frienda with whom I have uniformly acted ir
he Senate, upon the motion, now pending
to print these leaolutions. I would agree t(
i print them, however offensive they might be
r if the State had sent them to the Senate
I The State has a right to speak to the Senate
and be heard. But I accept the argument o
t the Senator from Georgia, which has im
i properly, as it seems to me, been callet
t special pleading, that they are the properly o
l the Senators to whom they are directed, am
9 I perceive no obligation requiring them t<
s have been placed before the Senate. The)
are instructions addressed to them, wit!
r reference to their own duties, and might jus
1 as well remain in their own pockets as to lit
t upon the table of the Senate, I hold then
i to be unjust, to be untrue, offensive, insult
ing, treasonable to the Constitution and
r will not endotse them by my vote. I havi
thus briefly stated my reasons.
Mr. Phklps. I did not mean to be drive!
t again into this discussion. And I believe
should content myself with repeating what
said the other day, that if any man has me
i this subject, troublesome, vexatious aa it ia
i with a feeling of coolness and deliberation, i
I ia the Senator from Vermont; but aomi
f charges have been made from which I desiri
I an opportunity to vindicate myself.
i Ido not wish to go into the discussion now
1 but, after the remarks that have been mad<
i by the Senator from Mississippi, 1 feel it i
j duty which I owe to myself, as well aa ti
i those whom 1 represent, that I should presen
my vindication. And if the Senate will in
I dulge me until to-iaorrow, aa it is now late
I will endeavor to do so in as brief a manne
aa possible.
I The subject was passed by informally ac
cording ly,
THE NOBTH STAR
ROCHESTER, JANUARY 25, 1850.
Notice to SnhKriben.
Business and other communications, con
nected with the “North Star” establishment
must hereafter be directed to Frederick Dou
glass, Rochester, N. Y., he having taken th<
management of the business affairs of the pa
per upon his own hands.— r. d.
Notice to Subscribers.
P*v up! Pay up!! Pay up!!!
The subscribers to “the North Star” (ii
Rochester especially,) are earnestly requests
to forward their subscriptions for our thin
volume, at once. Let us start with a ligh
heart, a clean sheet, and a fair breeze, upoi
the voyage of the year, of which this is th<
commencement. —r. n.
Notice to oar British Subscriber*.
The subscribers to “the North Star” ii
England, Scotland, and Ireland, are desired ti
forward their subscriptions to Miss E. Nichol
son, 11 Howgill street, Whitehaven, by Post
office orders.—r. o.
Joseph C. Bustill.—We are happy to in
form our Philadelphia readers that the Wo
men’s Association of that city have securet
the services of this gentleman to act as agen
for “the North Star.” The whole manage
ment of the business affairs of the paper, m
far as concerns that city, has, under the direc
tion of this Association, been committed t<
him; and the subscribers, therefore, are re
quested to apply to him for the correction o
any irregularities which may hereafter oceui
in the ciiculation of the North Star in tha
city.
The office of Mr. Bustill is 149 Soutt
Sixth street.
Notice to Correspondents.
We have received a long address from out
friend, Whitfield, of Buffalo. The document
is an excellent one, and proves, conclusively,
that talent is not incompatible with a colored
skin. We should be pleased to publish the
paper in question; but we cannot do so at
present. The Proceedings of Congress are ol
a character so interesting, and are read with
so much seat, that that it is essential to the
prosperity of our paper that they should be
published regularly, even te Ibe exclusion oi
many Contributions, which, under other cir
cumstances, we shoald gladly insert in out
columns.—r. d.
W* have recently received numerous let
letters from our transatlantic friends, abound
ing in gratifying approval of the course and
character of the paper they have done so
much towards establishing and supporting.
We feel especially indebted to our Edin
burgh, Carlisle, Newcastle, Bristol, Bridg
water, Cork, Belfast, and Manchester friends
for their words of sympathy and encourage
ment.—r. D,
erf at AatMlanry CaartatiM at
Irracuc.
This Convention has already been the etib
ject of mueh inteiest, and is likely to con
tinue so. There has scarcely, to our know
ledge, ever been a meeting held by the aboli
tionists of this country, which was looked
forward to with non solicitude, than the ooa
in question. The nature of the call, the
parties included in it, and the differ—see of
opinion well known to exist among the per
sons likelyf to b* n attendance, naturally
enough induced apprehensions in the minds
of mgny, that the whole weak! bn a failure.
it is not our purpose, in the present article,
to determine the question whether the Con
vention is to be regarded as having snoeaeded
or as having failed to accomplish the cod
aimed at, by those who called it together.
We do, however, propoee to give our read
ers a complete and candid narration of the
points which ehieiy interacted as, accom
panied by- such thoughts as may suggest
themselves in connection with the subject.
Indispensable engagements at borne ren
dered it impossible for us to reach Syracuse
before the afternoon of the second day; and
similar duties compelled ua to leave on Sa'.
urday morning-—two sessions before the
Convention dosed. We arrived at Market
Hall on Wednesday afternoon. While tra
velling thither, we bought a penny paper,
containing the following list of officers
Samuel J. May, President; Frederick
Douglass and Joseph C. Hathaway, Vice-
Presidents; J. W. Randolph, Charles
Adams, Secretaries.
Cbsrles C. Burleigh, S. H. Gay, Slocum
Howland, Abigail Mott, were appointed a
Business Committee. T. G. White, A!an
son Thorpe, George W. Dean, were a Fin
ance Committee.
Our readers will be interested to know, at
once, who were in attendance as speakers.
We may mention, besides those already
named in tbe list of officers, that Messrs.
Pruyn, Samuel R. Ward, John Thomas,
Stephen S. Foster, Rev. Mr. Wing, Henry
Box Brown, Calvin Fairbanks, Mifflin Gibbs,
C. L. Remond, C. A- Wheaton, Lyndon
King, Parker Pilsbury, Lewis Burtis, Ben
jamin Fish, James C. Jackson, and Gerrit
Smith. The last named gentleman was
speaking when we entered the hall. We
were struck at once with the complete com
mand which he held over the crowded multi
tude before him. His noble form, his deep
toned and musical voice, hia graceful atti
tudes, his face, radiant with benevolence,
earnestness, and sincerity, proclaimed him at
once among the noblest specimens of modern
orators. No one can hear him, without feel
ing his power.
The subject under consideration was the
character of the Constitution of the United
States. The Convention had already divided
into parties, and those parties had selected
their champions. Mr. Smith represented the
Libeity Party, and anti-slavery character of
the Constitution; and Mr. C. C, Burleigh
represented the American Anti-slavery So
ciety. Both are able men, and no good
cause need suffer in the hands of either. It
wes not to opr taste that the discussion
should have been confined to two individuals.
The arrangement, however, had been adopt
ed previous to our arrival, and we deferen
tially and cheerfully fell in with it. Aa we
before stated, Mr. Smith was speaking when
we entered the crowded hall. He was esta
blishing the utility of the preamble to the
Constitution, aa a means of ascertaining the
true meaning of the enacting clauses of that
instrument. He then proceeded to review
what are commonly called the compro
mises of the Constitution. He denied that
either of them authorised or guaranteed sla
very and he affirmed thet each of them was
capable of an innocent construction. Mr.
Smith holds views on this subject very nearly
similar to those held by Lysander Spooner.
The clause relating to tbe apportionment of
taxation, he contended was an anti-slavery
provision, inasmuch, instead of giving power
to the South,it reduced that power two-fiffhs.
This part of his reasoning was based upon
the hypothesis that tbe clause itself related
in any way to slaves. But Mr. Smith denied
that it did so refer, and stated that the term
free was not to be taken in this connection as
the correlative of slave persons. All this
struck us strangely, we confess, knowing the
history of this clause of the Constitution, as
we do; but we screwed up our courage,
resolved not to mind even if our friend should
argue the nose off our face. He gave a
number of instances in which the word free
is used when it is impossible that it should
be considered as the correlative of slave per
sons claiming all the while that it was his
privilege to range through the whole expanse
of history—of precedent—of law,'in pursuit
of an innocent meaning while hia opponent
was compelled to confine himself wholly to
the Constitution, while seeking to impose
upon it a vicious construction. It is scarcely
necessary for us, io this article, to follow Mr.
Smith through either his reasonings or his
precedents. The former have been shown to
be unsatisfactory, and the latter to be of no
avail against well-known, long-established,
and universally admitted facts.
The claim that he alone bad a right to
search for evidence outside of the Constitu
tion, was as justly denied, we think, as it
was complacently affirmed and Mr. Burleigh
demonstrated, both by arg intent and prece
dent, hia right to a range aa wide as that
claimed by Mr. Smith.
This debate occupied the entire day and
evening on Wednesday, and formed decided
ly the most interesting point in the whole
proceedings. We nevei sew a discussion
conducted with more fairness, dignity, end
feeling. All that vre can award to Mr.
Smith (as he appeared to ue in this debate)
is, honesty of opinion, and consummate skill
and ability io the presentation of hie views.
When on the right side of sn opinion, he is
the men whom w# would select to chase
ten thousand but in a cause so palpably
erroneous as was that defended by him,
neither skill net ability availed. Charles C.
Burleigh literally demolished every position
taken in behalf of the character of the Amer
ican Constitution.
At tbe close of the debate between Messrs.
Smith and Burleigh, at ten o’clock oo Wed
nesday night, the Hall was still crowded;
and as the audience manifested no disposition
to retire, the debate was oooiumed between
Frederick Douglass, Samuel R. Ward t Cbae.
L. Remond, and Stephen Footer. This wai
prolonged until after 11 o’ofedfc the assem
blage Mill giving an signs of uaaasinasa 01
fatigue. Mr. Smith then offered the follow-
sutwtilute for rhe Twolotions prMnt9(i
by tbn business committee, affirming the pro
slavery character of the United States Coo
•U to tion and called for the popular voti
epos the same. This call, ws subsequent);
foamed, was wholly out of order, inasmucl
u a had been previously agreed upon tha
no vote should be takes until the subject hat
been folly discussed by tbe various speaker
present, who desired to discuss it; and sc
cording to the rules of the Convection, nt
popular voting was contemplated, aed now
but enrolled members were expected to vote
In tbe face of this undemanding, Mr. Smul
offered bis substitute, and demanded, as w>
have said, tbe popular vote upon it. W<
give bis resolutions here entire;
I. Resolved, That the Federal Coitstiluttoi
should, like other laws, be subjected to fogs
rules of interpretation; and that when it it
thus subjected, it is seen not to be for slavery
but again# slavery—not of powers adequate
to uphold any part of American Slavery, bu
of powers adequate to overthrow every part o
American Slavery.
S. That the man who votes for no slave
holder, and ter no one who does; and for n<
one who does not regard the powers of th<
Federal Constitution as ample for the over
throw of Slavery; is, provided always, that hi
acknowledges do pro-slavery church to be i
church of Christ, sod no pro-slavery miniate
to be a minister of Christ, worthy of tbe name
and the honor of an Abolitionist.
Of course, subjected to such a vote, wit!
the prejudices of tbe audienoe against the din
unionist, and in fitvor of Mr. Smith, theat res
olutions were adopted by a large majority.—
The subject, however, was still to be act*
upon by tbe Convention; and it was taken uj
as the first thing in older on Thursday morn
ing, when the debate became genera).
Mr. Calvin Fairbanks insisted on the anti
slavery character of the Constitution, with i
greater show of feeling than of argument.—
He counseled us to be kindly affectioned om
towards another,” and tecommended the for
geat toleration. He was followed by Freder
tek Douglass, who advocated the original rea
olutions, and opposed Mr. Smith's substitute
We condense this speech from the report e
it, published in tbe Syracuse Journal.
Mr. Douglass referred to the adoption o
Mr. Smith’s substitute last evening by a pop
ular vote, and while he would not impugi
that vote, he rejoiced that the question wa.
still open for the consideration ef tbe Conven
tion. He considered that the differences o
opinion upon the Constitution formed one u
the strongest barriers against the fusion of thi
different anti-slavery men into one organiza
tion—an end devoutly to be wished for. Hi
first objection to the substitute offered by Mr
Smith was, that it practically aimed at a din
solution of the Union, white it theoretically
professed respect for that Union. It was, ii
his judgment, seeking tn honest end in a dis
honest way. He was for dealing even will
slaveholders in the most truthful and hones
manner, and was against taking any advantagi
of the Constitution in favor of freedom; ii
view of his well established conviction, tha
both they who framed that instrument, am
they who adopted H, understood it as protect
ing slavery, so long as that institution should
continue in the land. It was enough for bin
to know that the Union of 1789 could neve
have been secured under such a coostiuctioi
of the Constitution as Mr. Smith now propo
sed to put upcu it. That construction amount
to this that the constitution does not guaran
tee the right of the slaveholder of Maiylam
to reclaim his fugitive slave in New England
that the genera) government ia not authorize*
by the Constitution to suppress slave insurrec
irons; that, instead thereof, the general gov
ernment is bound, by that instrument, to t&ki
sides with the slaves, in a contest sgains
their masters; that, that clause of the Coneti
tution, relating to the apportionment of taxes
is a premium to liberty, and a condemnatioi
of slavery; that the clause, referring to thi
migration and importation ot such persons ai
any of the States shall see fit to admit, is at
anti-slavery provision; propositions, each ant
all, so absurd and ridiculous, as to fill ont
with amazement that they should be enter
tained for a moment by a tingle individual o
any intelligence! Every man must see tha
no union could have been formed between tht
free States and the slave States under such i
construction of the Constitution. He bek
that what the Union was, and what the par
ties agreed at the time it should be, the partiei
to it now should maintain it to be, or eom<
out with the American Anti-Slavery Society
and repudiate the bargain altogether. “N<
Union with Slaveholders,” is the pares
platform from which to preach “delivering
to the captive.” In reply to Mr. Ward, wb<
asked the question, “Who will altei the lawi
if you elect no one?” Mr. Douglass referret
to the admission of Daniel O’Connell to thi
British Parliament. Mr. O’Connell was i
Roman -Catholic, and the British Constitutroi
required him to abjure the Pope, as a condi
tion of becoming ajegislator. Did he abjurt
the Pope? Navas —and probably he woulti
not have done so though he should have died
without seeing the inside of the British Par
liament. Who altered the lawa? the British
Constitution was changed; the moral senti
ment of England improved, under O’Connell’s
agitation; the intolerance of bigotry relaxed;
and legislators, sworn to support the Consti
tution, modified it, in accordance with the
progress and enlightenment of the nation.—
Mr. Douglass added further, that there were
more than sixty thousand colored persons,
free, in Maryland, who are wholly indebted
for their freedom to the moral sense of their
former owner*—no statute ever having been
enacted, obliging their masters to free them.
There were numerous instances that could be
cited, which show that the moral sense oftbe
community often renders the statute hook null
and void. It was not, however, obligatory
upon him to explain the precise manner in
which the laws of this countiy are to be
amended. All he undertook to demonstrate
was, that the Constitution required, on the
part ef those who became parties to it, a vio
lation of the law of G»d. The latter demon,
■listed, leaves no room for a question such m
that pet to him by bis friend Mi. Ward.
Mr. Douglass next turned his attention to
the charge of “No Government,” so often
irged against diaunioniata, by Liberty Party
non. He said, it was all very well to talk of
wiling an anu-slavery construction upon tbe
gad to predict tbn
■traction will, mom day, be put oa it; bet,
ha ratal, orbit is saw to bo done? Will tbo
Liberty Party abide by tbeCoosutoiioa, as at
preranl ooostroed! Will they tin all ibe in
termediate time, io the hope of finally fixiag
a pea the Coratitutiea tbeir ewe peculiar in
teipr cut toot A prominent member of that
party here exclaimed, Wt will mat
“Then, (returned Mr. Doegirae,) yea ara a
i revolutionist—aa inaaneetioniat, and a no*
t government ana." There ia no escapiitg
I this conclusion. The Supreme Court of the
United Statue ia the authorised exponent of
the meaning of the Constitution; its deemeoe
i are tending upon the entire nation; and be
i who resists them, places himself in rebellion
against hie government: so that the audience
will eee that the loyal Liberty Party oeeepy a
ground as hostile to human government as that
s °P<”> which the American Anti-Slavery Soci
ety has erected its standard of “No Union
WITH StAvtHousaa”! Between tbo pratent
I interpretation, and the hoped fox future one,
i there is a great gulf fixed—and, to hit cued,
an impassable oee. There is ten one jest
I wey to deal with this question: bn the IJn
r ,0K dissolved, and the Constitution repu
diated—and in the spirit of our ancestors, let
os give to the world another Declaration of
Independence, and proclaim the esutbiishmem
of a republic, with s Coasuiution to which no
tyrant nor slave can possibly be a party.
i We would not have the reader aappoee,
r from the foregoing, that we have giTso them a
full statement of the arguments on either aide
of the constitutional question. There were
1 many other points presented, to which it will
not be in our power to allude at this time.—
There u one point, however, freon the oppo
j site side, which we arc disposed to mention,
as much for its novelty, as for its absurdity!!
It came from the eloquent lips of James C.
Jackson, who said so many good things du
ring the greater part of his speech, that we
think he can afford to have us criticise him in
i this particular. He denied the right of one
generation to make a constitution for another;
i stating that those who adopted the American
Constitution meant that it should be a pro
slavery instrument. He had as good a right
to adopt it as they bad, and be should do so,
giving it sn anti-slavery meaning—and that
f kis meaning was of as much authority aa
theirs. We do not, peihaps, give the exact
f words, although, even in this, we think we
are not seriously at fault. Mr. Jackson seem
ed well pleased with his philosophy of gov
ernment. His first idea is s good one, snd is
as old as it is good. It may be seen in near
p ly all the political works of Jeremy Bentham;
p but we should never dream of making it. the
premise of such a conclusion, We put it to
friend Jackson if the argument would not
stand better: No generation baa a right to
make a government which shall bind the con
sciences of another. The framers of the A
merican Constitution have bound the conacien
ces of tbeir successors, and therefore, we
have a right to repudiate that Constitution,
and to frame one for ourselves.
The subject, next in importance, to that in
solving the eharaeter of the American Con
slitulion, was embodied ia the following reso
i lution, offered to the Convention by Parker
Pilisbory:
Resolved, That among all the agencies and
instrumentalities whose professed object ia
the overthrow of slavery, none has entitled
itself to the full co-operation and support of
r the people, but the American Anti-Slavery
i Society, and its organized or individual auxil
iaries. None other can claim to be based up
s on immutable piinciples. None other has
maintained inviolate even the principles upon
which it set out; and none other stands out
I to-day before the world, clear in ita doctrines
as the sun, fair in iu fidelity tothoaedoetrinea
as the moon, and terrible in iu righteous de
mands upon, and rebukes of, the tyrant, as an
army with banners. And as such, it, and it
only, is worthy the regard, the cordial aymp*-
thy and support of every lover of Humanity
and Man.
To this resolution, many in the Convention,
(we among the number,) took exception.—
Such a resolution seemed tojjs ill-timed, and
in no way calculated to lessen the nhieeltt
io the way of a harmonious co-operation of all
the anti-Slavery forces in this Stste. It seem
ed to be too laudatory of ourselves, and too
blind to the good qualities of other associa
tions, simply because “they follow not us.”
Since we commenced the present article, we
have received a copy of the proceedings of the
two last sessions of the Convention, and an
happy to find that a more temperate, and an
equally tiuthful resolution was substituted for
the one in question. It was offered by C. C.
Burleigh, and is as follows
Resolved, That the American Anti-Slave
ry Society, being baaed upon right piiociplee,
and having a plan of operation wisely adapt
ed to the went of abolishing slavery, and a
platform on which all who wish to help in
i that work, whatever be their political oi reli
gious creed, can freely and efficiently aet for
the accomplishment of the oommon object of
them all; it is worthy of their united support
and co-operation, and to give it such support
and co-operation, is to make the most eco
nomical and effective use which they cen
make, of tbeir Anli-Slaveiy energy and re
sources.
This resolution was adopted by a decided
majoi ity, sod the Convention soon afterwards
adjourned.
We may be asked our opinion as to what
especial good this long looked-for meeting has
accomplished and we are sorry to say that
we believe, that no especial good has resulted
from it. Those who felt kindly disposed to
wards the American Anti-Slavery Society be
fore the holding of this Convention, feel so
still; we doubt if one convert from the Liber
ty Party waa made. The moat that bra bora
accomplished, has been a meeting of the two
wings of the anti-slavery movement. We
have seen each other face to faee, and prated
with no other ties to tend os to each other
than those of affinity, whieh before existed.—
Messrs. G«mt South, Samuel R. Ward,
John Thomas, Rev. Mr. Stowe, and oUmt
Liberty Party men, have gone heme, quits
satisfied with the cenreetneaa of their views,
end (if possible,) more completely wedded to
the Liberty Party. While Mr. Wheat on,
Sedgwick, and others, of the Free Soil Party,
mo feeling quite aa aelf-eomplaeam in their
position; and.we scarcely need ray, that
Messrs. Burleigh, Foster,PtUsbory, Remood,
Hathaway, and other members of the Ameri
can Anti-Slavery Society, are as deeply as
over convinced of the soundness of their views,
and of the wisdom of tbo policy adopted by
that Society.
There was of course on this occasion a vast amount of truth presented to the minds of the multitude who thronged the convention.W« have seldom listened to a more powerful
speech than that made by 8. S. Foster on
Thursday night. From 9 o'clock in the eve
ning, until long after 11, he held a brilliant
audience in the most profound attention—si
lencing all attempts at the first, (and there
were many,) to hinder him in his grand ef
foit.
Our brother Remond also spoke several
times, and as usual, thrilled the audience by
hia fervid eloquence. Our esteemed friend
Pillsbury had but little to say during the
meeting; we believe he spoke but once. Hr
theo stirred up the elements of opposition u
a high pitch. He took up the idea of the
gulf between the American Anti-Slavery
Society and the liberty Party, describing tbe
former to be in heaven, and the latter in hell.
This was too much for the Liberty Party,
including our esteemed friend, Gerrit Smith,
who pronounced &uch remarks to be insolent.
He confess that they struck us as harsh.
We considered the meaning, however, rather
thtn the words in which it was couched.
The meaning was cotiect; since it only de
declared the one society to be right, and tbe
other to be wrong. Mr. Ward showed him
self to be a fluent speaker, an expert debatet.
and a good-natured fellow, full of fun and
frolic. Barring his frequent references to bis
wife, hia humorous sallies must always de
light an audience. But it ia no part of our
purpose to draw portraits of the differem
speakers. If we should attempt this, we
might fill the entire aide of our wide sheet.
There was every variety. The broad axe ol
Foster, the battering ram of Pillsbury, the
ready logic and the melodious accents of
Gerrit Smith, the mental agility of Burleigh,
the touching pathos of May, and the tine de
clamation of Remond, were all brought into
life and activity on this occasion. We ven
ture to say that Syracuse has seldom wit
nessed such an array of moral and intellectual
strength as that presented in this Convention.
If, in tbe foiegoing account, we have mis
stated any one, we shall, of course, be happy
to be set right.—r. o.
Editorial Items.
The President of our Model Republic,
the everyday robber of the rights of three
hundred people, is, at this time, displaying
his love of liberty, by giving entertainments
to the Hungarian exiles. There is no end to
republican hypocrisy.— r. d.
Our city just now presents a lively scene.
The streets have a good coat of snow the
sleighing is excellent; and the ladies and
gentlemen are out, with bells, buffaloes,
blankets, furs and tippets, of various descrip
tions, dashing merrily through the biting air,
and investing hoary winter with all the antics
of youthful summer.— f. d.
Wi ought to have said a word, last week,
about the vignette which appears upon our
paper. Our friend, Mr. Green, the artist,
kindly made us a donation of the design, and
we have appropriated it with pleasure. It
presents a rather dark appearance; but we
hope to relieve it of this imperfection by ii
few moie touches from our engraver; al
though, as it is, it may give to our readers a
slight idea of the eager footsteps of the pant
ing slave, when on the highway to liberty,
guided by the Norik Star. f. d.
The Chronotype newspaper, published in
B oston, and edited by Elizur Wright, has
ceased to exist. This announcement will
probably take many by surprize, as it took
us. The paper certainly seemed to be in a
flourishing condition. A very just review of
its life and character, appears in last week’s
Liberator. It is from the pen of William
Lloyd Garrison. Our readers shall have it
next week.— f. d.
Governor Seabrook, of South Carolina
has written a letter to Thomas H. Benton,
enclosing the pro-slavery resolutions of the
South Carolina legisla* re, to which Col.
Benton replies as follow*
Washington, Jan. 10, 1850.
Sir I have the honor to acknowledge the
receipt of your excellency's communication
of the 90th ultimo, and to say that it comes
vety opportunely for tbe trial of an issue ia
Missouri, which excites great public expecta
tion. That issue was joined in the Senate of
the United States on the 3d instant, in the
declaration made by me, and denied by my
colleague, that the General Assembly of
Missouri has mistaken the sentiment of the
people, and misconceived theii own powers,
when they pledged the State, to co-operate
with the slaveholding States in the measures
in progress. The expected time for taking
that issue was at the August elections of
next Summer; but the time proposed in the
resolutions which you send me is better, be
cause earlier, and I will take care to make it
known ih Missouri, for tbe information of all
concerned.
*Rerpectfully, your obt. svt.,
Thomas H. Benton.
Gov. Seabrook, Charleston, S. C.
The ladies of the Western New York
Anti-Slavery Society opened their Fair in
the spacious Minerva Hall, in this city, on
Wednesday afternoon, at 2 o’clock. We
shall call further attention to this matter,
and inform our readers of the success attend
ing it, iu a future number.—r. d.
We are indebted to tbe Hon. Joshua R.
Gidoinos, for valuable Congressional docu
ments.
Some very kiud friend in Cork, Ireland,
understanding something of the temperature
of this region of snow and ice, has gener
ously furnished us, by way of tbe Boston
Bazaar, with two suits of fleecy hosiery for
which that friend will please accept our sin
cere thanks. —r. p.
Mrs. Anna Richardson, of Newcastle-on-
Tyne, with all her other good works, con
tinues to furnish tbe British press with
Monthly Illustrations of American Sla
very,” wisely selected from American news
papers. These go the round of British
period icats, and serve to keep the model Re
public well understood among tbe aubjeets ot
tbe monarchy. We learn, by a recent letter
from this friend, that the University of Hei
delberg has conferred the title of D.D. upon
our esteemed friend and brother fugitive, J.
W. C. Pennington. We have very liule
respect for titles, but if they are-conferred
upon any, we are glad that colored men are
not deemed unworthy, (out of this alatery
cursed land) to share them in common with
others. r. d.
The argument of Charles Sumner, Esq.,
ia tbe ease of Sarah C. Roberta versus tbe
city of Boston, before tbe Supreme Court of
Massachusetts, on tbe subject of colored
schools, and tbe exclusion of colored children
fom tbe distort jcboeis, ia one of tbe most
elaborate and able inquiries into this subject,
which it has ever been our privilege to read.
We shall commence its publication in our
next week’s paper. Let those who wish to
to exclude coloied children from the District
schools in this city, read, and be convinced ot
their injustice, folly, and wickedness.— r. d.
Ora esteemed correspondent, H. M. P., of
Whitehaven, is earnestly solicited to con
tinue her contributions to the Star. They
are always welcome.
The Language of Flowers.
How eloquent are the flowers! As the
psalmist said of the stars on high, so may we
•ay of these aura of earth: “There is in
them no speech nor language, yet their voice
is not unheard.” Since the dew of the first
morning rested upon them amid the groves of
Paradise, they have been whispering their
sweet counsels of love and beauty in the ears
of man—and yet they are not silent. Year
by yeat, as they c.ome forth to adorn the ever
changing links of the rolling seasons, they
bring with them fresh messages irora that
spirit-land, whose glories seem at times well
nigh bursting through their bright etherial
forms. Gentle poets and prophets ate they;
poets, by virtue of their mission to interpret
the beautiful to the' eye of man and prophets,
inasmuch as they prefigure, as they come
forth one by one, from their dark winter sleep
in the bosom of earth, to light and life and
joy, that great mystery of our nature, that we,
teo, “shall not sleep but be changed.”
Surely, if there is, in the “glorious appar
elling” of this outward world, one thing more
than another, which speaks of the love of
God, it is the flowers: it is a perfect hymn of
love and praise that is written on the furrowed
page of earth with these lovely hieroglyphics
at first pale and trembling and delicate, as the
first unfolding of a tale of affection; then
deepening, month by month, in fervency and
luxuriance; and again sinking a way, like the
vanishing hues of the rainbow, or the last
melting touching strains of an iEolian mel
ody.
The Flowers have a high and holv mission
to fulfil; humble but appointed servitors are
they in the vast Cathedral of Nature, conse
crated and ordained by none other than the
Great High Priest Himself, in that hour
wherein He looked upon them arrayed in a
glory greater than that of Solomon, and gave
them a gospel to preach, to all generations of
men, a gospel of love and trusting faith, and
the assured belief to man, that
“Wlioso careth lor the flowers,
Will much more care for him.”
The lonely traveller in the far off wilds of
Africa is but a type of the myriads of human
spirits that have drunk refreshment and con
solation from these way-side fountains, that
have listened to the ministry of these lowly
preachers, and have gone on their way re
joicing.
Who has not felt, in contemplating the
vastness of creation, in standing upon the very
portals of the Infinite, and following the
mighty hosis of Heaven in their unimaginable
multitudes and wanderings—in gazing into
those abysses of ispace, whete the torch ofi
science serves but to make the darkness visi- i
ble, a sensation of fearful and heart-crushing
awe, a sense of weakness, and littleness, and
insignificance, like that which actuated the
Poet-king of Israel to exclaim. “Loid what is
man. that thou art mindful of him, or the eon
of man that thou visilest him!” It is in such
moments as these, that the breath of the low
!v flowers floats over the soul, like a waft
from the other world —it is then that we list
en most willingly to the sound of their holy
Evangel;—and, as our sinking eyes turn
from the crushing grandeurs of the starry'
Heavens to the turf beneath our feet, these
heaven-sent messengers are there, to assure
us, by the hoards of loveliness lavished upon
their fairy forms, and the delicate perfection
of their organization, that our poor notions of
great and small bear no relation to Infinitude,
that they exist not in the workings of the E
ternal Order, that they are among the many
shadows that will flee away at the dawning of
Everlasting Day; and that, if the testimony
of our Father’s might is written in burning
cyphers on the firmament of Heaven, the
message of Hts boundless and all embracing
love, is as clearly told and as gladly accepted
from the gleaming pages of the grassy earth.
And many a blessed lesson, besides these
great ones, do the flowers teach to the willing
and lowly mind that can stoop with child-like
simplicity to learn of these gentle teachers.—
To some submitted souls, they have breathed
forth great secrets of the Spirit \V orld they
have become transparent with the radiance of
their hidden and spiritual essence, and have
stood before them, transfigured into the shin
ing gloty of those great thoughts of God of
which they are the symbols, and the visible;
language, and embodiments. These have!
gazed upon them “with thoughts too deep for
tears.” because their delicate forms have been
too thin a veil to hide from them the radiance
of that in-dwelling in-forming*spiiit of the j
Universe which is the life and soul of nature.
Thus every separate flower has its own truth
to tell, besides foiming a harmonious part of
the great whole; and though the more serial
notes of the music they breathe may be heard
alone by deeply spiritualised natures, yet they
have tones of solemn sweetness loud enough
i for til but the dullest ear to hear. Who can
look on the snowdrop and the violet without
thinking of spotless purity and modest virtue;
on the daisy, without remembering the num
berless mercies that gladden our path of life,
unacknowledged and almost unseen, which
would yet be sorely missed were they to de
part; on the majestic rose, the Venus of flow
ers, without dreams of love and beauty; or on
the golden flower of the Sun, nor feel instruct
ed by an emblem of fsith and constancy, and
of a noble upward looking to the Soul and
Centre of all things!
Who could hold that dull, dry doctrine that
calls itself utilitarian, in the presence of a
flower! Are not, indeed, the floral hosts a
very “cloud of witnesses” against that blight
ing spirit that recognizes not the beautiful
amongst the ministrations of the Hue—oay,
that sees not the perfect uoion of the twain, a
union solemnized by the hand of iova “before
the foundation of the world” From what i.
world of joy and delight do such exclude them
selves Yea, they lose their right <o that
fair and broad inheritance in the wide kingdom
of nature, which would enable them, by virtue
of loving and teachable hearts, to
M CsM tbs florioiH all their own.”
Their eyes are clouded vritla the duet of
care, “the fretful stir unprofitable, and the
fever of the world,” and their ears deafened
with the whirl of its ceaseless activities so
that they see no beauty in the beautiful, and
bear not the “still small voice” that these
lowly ministers lift up j|uor the high and glo
rious snatches of the heavenly harmonies that
are permitted to float down to this nether
sphere, to gladden and refresh the weaned
soul of man, and to awaken in his heart that
unconquerable yearning for his fatherland,
which gives him assurance of his high origi
nal.
Bloom on, then, ye lovely flowers! Keep
for os, beneath your rainbow wings, that dew
of oar youth which the world’s sultry bieath
would so soon exhale; weaiy not in your ho
ly minitflries; teach us to adorn, like you, the
waste places of life; “ye toil not, neither do
ye spin,” and yet your Heavenly Father hath
given you a glorious investiture of beauty i
leach us likewise to depend upon Him, to ful
fil the mission He hath given us and to care
not anxiously for the morrow; so shall ye fill
up your appointed priesthood, and your voices
shall not be wanting in those links of heaven
ly music, that are to draw the soul of man, as
by the electric chain of a strong attraction, to
God, the central sun of the spiritual universe.
H. M. P.
Petition against the Slave Trade.
The following Petition, with the accompa
nying letter, has just reached us—and al
though the latter was not, perhaps, intended
for publication, its writer will pardon us for
inserting it in our paper, on th*e assurance
that it will be read with interest, by American
readers—especially by the friends of the slave.
To Her Majesty Victoria, Queen or
Great Britain and Ireland.
May it please your most Gracious Majesty:
We, the undersigned, your dutiful and loy
al subjects, the women of.lreland, well
aware of the warm interest your Majesty takes
in the cause of the oppressed, of every colour
and of every clime, approach your throne
with that relying confidence which your noble
character inspiles, and earnestly and respect
fully beg to appeal to your Majesty, in behalf
of those foully wronged and persecuted peo
ple—the Victims of the African Slave Trade
—and implore your Majesty to requite your
Ministers to adopt such measures, as they
shall deem requisite, to enforce the fulfilment
of the solemn treaties entered into, at various
times, since 1807, with Spain, Portugal, and
Brazil, for the total abolition of this nefarious
traffic, which was agreed to be abandoned
forever in 1820 and in 1831 and, fot the
consummation of which, the British people
have bestowed the enormous sum of jG 1,300,-
000. Many years have now elapsed Bince these
sacred promises were made, and the prospect
of their performance seems to be as distant as
ever.
The shamelessness of such a violation of
all honor and honesty, in so holy a cause, has
already aroused the indignation of the whole
Empire, and petitions to your Majesty, and to
Parliament, are many, an this soul-stirring
subject; even female timidity is overborne,
and the women of the land crowd to testify
their eager desire to have the bargain, which
their fathers and their husbands paid for, scru-1
pulously enforced.
We trust and hope, that it only requires to
draw your Majesty's attention thus lorcibly,
by the voice of the United Kingdom, to this
insulting, as well as faithless, conduct of these
ungrateful nations, in order that they may be
practically taught, without further delay, that
the British people will not submit to this dis
graceful fraud.
Belfast, Dec. 27th, 1849.
My Dear Sir—l write a few lines by or
der of the Committee of “The Belfast Ladies’
Anti-Slavery Association,” to let you know
how much the members of it regret that they
have not been able to collect a sufficient quan
tity of work in time to send out for your an
nual Rochester Fair. This is chiefly owing
to the distress amongst the poor of our own
country, and the number of Bazaars which
have taken place in consequence of it; we
have, however, collected some work, and trust
that if we are spared until the time of your
next Fair, we shall be able to send you a box.
In the meantime, lest you should imagine that
our sympathy with the slave is extinct, I en
close you a copy of a monster petition we have
prepared to present to Her Majesty in behalf
of “the Victims of the African Slave Trade.”
The procuring of signatures, which has occu
pied much time, it has been signed by six
thousand, one hundred and eighteen Irish
women, and many more would in all proba
bility have done so, had not the language been
considered by them too strong. For instance,
the Society ot Friends in general, objected to
it on this score, and the Members of the Anti-
Slavery Society in Cork, would neither sign
it themselves, nor procure signatures lor us,
as thinking the object of the petition could not
be effected without war. This we should re
gret as much as they, provided the greater
evil can be removed without resorting to so
dreadful an alterna«ive. Our Vice President,
Mrs. Thomson Jerment, who drew up the pe
tition, has been most active and energetic
and has done more towards procuring signa
tures, than all the rest of our Committee to
gether. Will you be kind enough to let me
know whether the subscription of our Associ
ation for the North Star, has been paid for
the year 1849? Our Treasurer has been in a
bad state of health, and was obliged to remove
to a warmer climate, which has occasioned
some confusion in the accounts. I have just
forwarded to Mrs. Richardson, of Newcastle,
our subscriptions for 1850; also, a subscription
for M/ss M. Ireland, a Member of our Com
mittee, Her address is Royal College. I
need scarcely say that we all derive much
pleasure in perusing your excellent paper.—
The letters in it addressed tQ your former
master,have excited great and universal inter
est. Mrs. Richardson mentioned that the sub
scription to the North Star was to be raised
to 10s, so I sent 1 for the Association and
Miss Ireland. My father tent his through
our friends in Cork. Do you think it would
be possible to have some true stories of slaves,
or aneodotes of aiavery, embodied in small
tiacts, for distribution in our schools; such
tracts, for instance, as the specimen I enclose
These are sold at sixpence a hundred and
I think facts placed in the hands of children,
would do more towards instilling a horror of
slavery than anything else we can do; but
they would require to be judiciously written,
so as to excite deep sympathy for the slave,
and indignation against the slaveholder, with
out shocking what would be termed here the
refined feelings of these countries. Will you
excuse the liberty I have taken in putting
these queries 1 My father and sister join me
in wishiogyou the compliments of the season,
and believe me your sincere friend,
H. HINCKS. j
News from Ear ope —Fsatteti Day*
Later.
Halifax, Telegraph Office,
Sunday morning 10 o'clock. J
The Canada arrived Uns morning at H
o'clock, having experienced very bad weather
She has 103 through passengers, snd wil
sail in two hours.'
ENGLAND’
The political news from England is not o
much importance. Everything is as dull ai
the season itself. Parliament will asaembh
for the dispatch of business on the 3d o
February, when it is rumored that variant
political and commercial meaeuies will b<
brought before the Legislature.
On the subject ui the annexation of Canadt
to the United States, the Morning Advertiser
a well informed journal, has the following:—
The Cabinet haa under its consideratior
the question of a severance between the motbei
country and her Canadian possessions. The
conclusion arrived at is, that England wouk
be no actual loser were the Canadu to carrj
their threats of separation into effect. Th<
result of a careful examination of the Cana
dian connexion, in all its aspects, is, that s<
far from England being a sufferer from tlx
renunciation of their allegiance to the Britts!
crown on the part of the Canadians, she
would be an actual gainer. It is a well as
certain ed fact, that the expenses of the con
nexion have more than counterbalance its ad
vantages. The maintenance of that part o;
our colonial poasessions subjects us to a year
ly expenditure of more than £BOO,OOO if
hard cash. Will any one tell us that the
Canadas confer on us benefits at all eqoivalem
to this? i
It may iddeed be debated whether our ex
ports to the Canadas would not be as greai
as they have been at any former period. Ai
any rate, we speak advisedly when we say
that this country will be no loser by the ses
sion of the Canadrs. That is certainly the
conclusion at which Ministers have arrived,
after the most able and most careful delibera
tion. On that conclusion they hare resolved
to act. When the session meets we shall
see the facts brought fully before the public,
with the grounds on which the Cabinet has
come to the conclusion at which it has ar
rived.
A desperate, but futile effort, it is said, will
be made, on the opening of parliament, to
restore a portion of the old protective laws.
Nobody, however, seemed concerned at the
hostile appearances which these savans of
monoply have assumed.
Col. Webb and suite arrived at Liverpool
by the Yorkshire, en route to Vienna, to com
mence his diplomatic duties at the Austrian
Court.
The steamer Niagara has been thoroughly
repaired in the Clyde; she would soon re
lume her place on the line.
FRANCE.
Since the sailing of the last steamer, there
ias been but little news of moment from the
French capital.
Three-twelfths of the estimated expendi
ture for the year 1850, have already been
granted the Minister of France.
The bill to maintain duly on potable
liquors has been carried. Louis Napoleon
tnd Gen. Changarnier have been reconciled
igain. A report was current in the early
t>artof the week that a credit of 6,000,000
would be demanded for the President of the
Republic, claims to that amount hanging
Against him. The Bank of France has been
Authorized to increase its circulation of rates
from four hundred and fifty-two millions to
five hundred and twenty five millions of
fames.
THE PAPAL STATES.
The Pope it is said, will not return to
Rome until after the projected loan has been
completed.
There has been some disturbance in the
Roman Provinces, in consequence of the re
imposition of the Flour tax.
The other foreign intelligence is of no in
lerest.
AUSTRIA AND HUNGARY.
A mutiny broke out in one of the Austnan
regiments stationed in Comorn, on the 19th
Dec. through which several suporior officers
were killed by the exasperated men.
The Austrirn Government is about raising
a foreign loan of 30,000,000 florins in the
Lombard Venetian Kingdom.
The financial deficit from Austria is said to
be 40,000 ftancs per diem.
REBELLION IN SERVU.
Accounts from Vienna and Berlin, of the
-2d, state that a rebellion, on a most formid
able scale,had broken out amoug the Setvians.
Syrmia, Sclavonia, and the military bounda
ries, are up in arms against the Austrian Gov
ernment. The Sclavonian and Servian
boundary regiments have revolted, and raised
the cordon of the Turkish frontier, so that
their rear is fully secured—from the bretluen
of their race in Turkey, they are assured be
forehand of all support—a circumstance which
will complicate the relations, already suffi
ciently ipineuses, between Austria and the
Porte.
The Boundary Regiments which have re
volted are among the bravest and hardiest sol
diers in the Austrian service. The ground of
their rising' is, resistance to the decree of No
vember 18, organizing the Woiwodescliaft,
The chief movement is in the Sylraian, Peter
watdein and Tepaikist military districts, which
are exasperated at being excluded from the
Woiwodeschaft.
It is said that Russia has been intriguing
to get up this insurrection, in order to have
both Austria and Turkey entirely dependent
on her; in proof of which the latest accounts
from Servra mention that the Russian agita
tion is daily growing more open and daring,
and that the incredible activity of the agents
of that power leads to the conclusion that
sanguinary entanglements wifi speedily hreak
out between Russia and Turkey. The Prince
of Servia haa already refused to pay the tri
bute due to the Porte of 34,000 ducats, and
the arming of all male adults is being carried
on with the greatest possible activity, with
out any one knowing where the arms come
from.
RUSSIA AND TURKEY.
The Hamburg Borsenhall announces the
discovery of a new and very extensive conspi
racy in Russia. Its focus was at Moscow,
and its object was to depose the dynasiv of
Romanoff. A coup de mma was to have been
meoapied against the Czar on New Year’s
day. The conspirators who have been thus
far discovered, all belong fo the high nobility
and to the Bhasian national party—the party
pfthe Boyards. Not a single Pole is com
promised in this affair. The conspiracy is ex
clusively aristocratic and Russian. The Ga
zette ol Breslau sqyg it is the intention of
Russia to oonceutrate all her fotces on the
I'utkish frontier, in ordet to be ablo at any
time to take advantage ef events which may
arise, and that Austria wfi) garrison Poland.
The following well deserved notice of the
Liberator, is from the pee of the Editor oi
the Anti-Slavery Bugle
The Liberator.
The old pioneer’ sheet—the first to pro
claim in our land the principle of Immediate
EMANCiPATioN—entered upon its twentieth
volume ait the commencement of the present
year. There is not in all the land another
paper which has larger claims upon the
gratitude and affection of the friends of Radi
cal Reform than this. Its fidelity to principle
under every temptation, its fearless and in
dependent tone, its promptness to embrace
and proclaim unpopular truth without regaid
to consequences, should make it dear to every
friend of humanity. It cannot, like The Na
tional Era, boast of 15,000 subscribers, but
it rosy say without boasting, that, to the
cause of Liberty it has ever been
Constant as the Nothera Star,
Of wbosa true-fixed sol resting quality
There is w> fieUow in the fimUmeat.’
It may alao claim for itself the honor of be
is| boot* hated aad fund by altwhoHm
and their guilty apologists than any other
jturnal in the land. Hoar many thrilling
associations are awakened in oer mind ae it
runabnek through the long period during
which this paper has stood foremeet in the
conflict with Despotism But we hare, not
time to indulge in the pleasing retrospect.
With all our heart we sav, Success to the
dauntless Liberator May it live to pro
claim the tidings that our laod and the world
are purified from theatain of Slavery, that all
mankind are free!
We perceive that it haa been found neces
sary to raise the price of The Liberator from
$2 to $2,50 per annum. After an experience
of three years, it has been found that it can
not sustain itself at the former rate. We
know of ‘another Anti-Slavery paper, the
price of which ought to augmented.
our readers guess its name
We copy the following letter from tbe
Disfranchised Americau” aa an act of aim pie
justice to that paper, and to ourselves.—r. o.
Boston, December 18th, 1849.
Mr. Svmnh, Sir: A copy of your
paper haa just been put into my hand, con
taining a somewhat severe attack upon me,
baaed upon an article recently published in
the “North Star.” I beg to state in explana
tion, that the article by which your indigna
tion has been provoked, was neither written
by me, nor by my authority; that at the time
it was written, 1 was full five hundred miles
from home. That my articles in the “North
Star,” are usually signed with my initials;
that the article in question was not signed as
above; that I have never seen a copy of
your paper before seeing the one before mo;
that 1 have never expressed an unfavorable
opinion of yourself, nor of your paper, at any
time, in nor out of the “Star.” Now sir,
that justice may be done speedily, and that
there may be no strife between persons situa
ted as we are, I beg that you will insert this
hrief explanation in your f thcoming num
ber, and the same shall find a place in the
“North Star.”
With respect, fltc.,
Frederick Douglass.
Nature made us individuals, as she did the
flowets and the pebbles; but we are afraid to
be peculiar, and so our society resembles t
bag of marbles or a string of mould can
dles. Why should we all dress after the same
fashion? The frost never paints my windows
twice alike.
Receipts
Far the North Star, for the Week ending
January 28, 1850-
Wm Martin, Cork, Ireland 4,80
Mr* Harryman, England 3,00
Jeremiah Spalding, Navarino 2,00
John M Nicholla, Scott’s Hollow 2,00
Juba Levy, Palmer Depot 2,00
Joseph Santee 2,00
Joseph Underhill 2 f OQ
John Thom ts, Providence 2,00
E C Tuttle I^oo
Griffith M Cooper QO
W D Dickinson 2 00
Lucy Cheney j,oo
Abel Ross 2 00
John Petrie (Sept. 2) 100
Austin Ross 2 00
Lloyd Scott 2 00
Esther H Walton 2 00
Lydia Chevalier 2 00
Mina Bee 2 qq
John Fox 2 00
Wm Ainsworth I qq
Mr. Fannj Kemble Jon
James C Jackson
David Waite
Peter Cutler 2 qq
Slocum Howland j’qq
Mrs Luther Colemau 2 00
Mrs S H Smith j’qq
Leonard Patterson j’qq
William H Topp 2 00
Robert B Forson 1 qq
Mrs E Wallace 2 00
Hiram Putman 2 oo
W Newu don LOO
Joseph Savage 2 00
Stephen Smith 2 00
Thatcher Clarke 2 00
Pho'bt II Jones 2 00
Joseph Strain 2 QQ
Thomas Butler j’qq
Win Loquen j qq
Pliny Sexton /qq
Richard M’Ouber o 00
Thomas Gibbs 2 00
David Spalding 2 qq
A Dolhar Clay j qq
Win N M’Kemie j qq
David Cogswell 2 00
David Waldo ’qq
A Woodward 'qq
Ernest Held j’qq
Amelia Bradbury 2 oq
C B Sedgwick gjoO
Court land Bates j’qq
E J Forster ,/qq
Richard A John llradfield q’qq
Mrs Marsh
Henry Stanton
WHAT THE CANADIANS THINK OF
WISTAR’S BALSAM.
From the Montreal Transcript, July 22, 1848.
W’e think it due to Dr. Wistar that w* should
add our testimony to numerous others as to the ex
traordinary merits of biy «edicinein certain oures,
particularly where the patient has complained of
pain in the side, or in cases of an asthmatical char
acter.
We are personally acquainted with many persons
who have experienced immense relief from the u se
of this medicine, when lahoiiqg myfer e
abore mentioned; and a* in 1 he changeable climate
of Canada the*) diseases are more than usually
common, say oedicine calculated to counteract
them, must be of value.
We are aware that it has a large and atill increas
ing sale, and has been very generally and benefici
ally used since its introduction into Canada three
years ago—and the very fact of its having stood the
test of three years’ experience is proof of its value.
Wp ar« not in the habit of recommending patent
medicines, unless the benefits conferred by them
have come qnder o«r own observation; but in the
present instance we can recommend Wistar’s Bal
aam of Wild Cherry, as a medicine worthy of the
confidence of the public in diseases of the CV,t
and side; and in many cases in this citv
Coughs hare yielded to its infliieuoe. V
To be genuine it must he signed 1. BUTTS
G i
PiJ* b Po WILLI*; by W*.
WELL NIGH TOO LATE,
Dr. W. B, Sloan: Sir—Last New Years I po
liced that my colt had a swelling on the pastern
joint of the hind leg, which increased, and after a
few days broke* and became one entire running
sore from the hoof to the bock; at length the swell
ing and inflammation extended to the body. The
intestines being so much affected, came out about
the siae of a quart measure. I showed the colt to
a great mustier of portoas, some of whom were
Physicians, and some Farriers, for the purpose of
eliciting information relative to the proper treat
ment. All remarked that they bad never seen nor
beard of a similar case, and gava it as their opinion
that no medicine could save his life. Several of
my neighbors advised me, out of kindness to ibe
colt to kill it. During the extreme cold weather
of January and February, the colt hid so much on
iu side, that the bones came through the skin in
several places. However, when it was well nigh
too late, I commenced using your valuable Oint
ment; Since whioh the inflamnation has all disap
peared, the intestines have gone back, the leg is
entirely healed, and the cok is now playing about,
the onfv mark of any misfortune bav ing befallen it, j
being a slight eolargmpfqt o( the pastern joint, To
all of which a large number of my neighbor* 00s
testify. My residence is user Freeport. P tepW
eon co. t 111.
March th Years, Ac.
O. P. McCOOL.
FEARFUL APPARITION.
translation from the GERMAN.
In a very wild and remote region of
the Scottish Highlands there stood, on
a rocky height, an old fortress.
One stormy evening, in harvest, its
lord looked from his window into the
darkuess, and over the well-guarded
court of the castle, towards the opposite
hills, where the tops of the trees, still
visible, rustled and waved in the dark
blue heavens. The rivulet in the val
ley sent forth a wild and strange sound,
and the creaking weathercock clattered
and brawled, as if chiding the storm.
The seene and the hour were con
genial to the tnind of the lord of the
castle. He was no longer the mild
and indulgent master. His ordy daugh
ter had fled from the fortress with a
handsome youth, far inferior to her in
birth, but a sweeter singer and harp
player than any inhabitant of the wild
Highlands; and, soon after their flight,
the lover was found dashed to pieces
in the bottom of a rocky valley, into
which, in the darkness of the night, he
had fallen. Thereupon the daughter,
by aa unknown pilgrim aent a letter to
her father, aaying that, night having
robbed her of her lover, her eyes were
opened to her fault; that she had re
tired to a convent, to do the most
severe penance, and that he would nev
er §ee her more. From this event the
lord of the castle had become almost as
obdurate as the surrounding rocks, and
as unfeeling as the stony pavement ot
his fortress.
As he now looked from the window,
he saw ia the yard a lantern, move
backwards and forwards, aa if in the
hand of tome one who, with tottering
steps, stole across the aveaaV Angrily
be called out—“ Who goes there?' 1 for
liis domestics had strict orders to ad
mit no one within the walls; and since
the flight of the young lady, these com
mands were rigidly obeyed, it seemed
as it lifeless stones alone dwelt within.
To the lord of the castle there came
a sod voice:
“An. old woman,” it said, begs some
food, noble knight.
But the bumble demand was impet
josly refused.
“Spy—vagrant—witch?” f were the
appellations showered upon thwbeggar;
and because she did not immediately
retire, but reiterated her petition with
a fervent, though weak voice, the
knight, in the wildness of his wrath,
called on his blood-hounds to hunt the
beggar woman away.
Wildly did the ferocious dogs rush
forth; hut, scarcely had they approach
ed the woman* when she touched the
strongest and fiercest with a slender
wand. The domestics who had come
□lit expected that the savage dog would
tear her in pieces, but, howling, he
turned and the others laid themselves
down, whinning, before the beggar.
Again the lord of the castle urged
them on; but they only howled and
moaned, and lay still.
A strange shuddering seized him,
which redoubled when the old woman
raised her lantern on high and her long
white hair appeared waving in the
storm, while, with a sad and threaten
ing voice, she exclaimed—
Thou in the heavens, who seest
and hearest!”
Trembling, the knight retired from
the window, and ordered his people to
give her what she demanded. The do
mestics, frightened at the apparition,
placed some food without in a basket,
and then secured the doors—all the
while repeating prayers, until they
heard the strange old woman carry
away the food. As she stepped out of
the castle gate, the hounds moaned
mysteriously after her.
From this time regularly, every
third evening, the lantern was seen in
the castle yard, and no sooner did the
strange twinkling begin to be visible
through the darkness, and the light
steps to be heard to totter softly over
the pavement, than the lord of the-cas
tle hastened back from the window, the
domestic put out the basket of food;
and the hounds moaned sorrowful til!
the apparition vanished.
One day—it was now the beginning
of winter—the knight followed tht
chase in the wildest part of the moun
tains. Suddenly his hounds darted uj
a steep height, and, expecting a gouc
capture, at the risk of imminent dan
ger, he forced his shuddering hors*
over the stoney slippery ground. Be
fore a cavern in the middle of the as
cent, the hounds stood still; but how
felt the knight when the figure of
woman stepped to the mouth of tin
abyss and with a stick drove back tht
dogs. From the silvery locks of the
woman, as well as from the restlesi
and low meanings of the hounds, ant
i his own internal feelings, he soon per
ceived that in tins drear spot the lan
tern bearer stood before him.
i Hall frantic, he turned his horse’s
head, buriea his spurs in its sides, ant
galloped down the steep, accompaniet
by the yelling hounds, towards tht
castle.
Soon after this strange occurrence
the lantern was no longer seen in tht
court of the castle.—They waited on«
day—several days—a whole week pas
.sed over, but the apparition was n<
longer seen.
If its first appearance had alarmed
the lord of the castle and his domestics
its disappearance occasioned still mort
t consternation.
They believed that the former prog
I nosticated some dreadful event, whicl
the latter betokened to be near. Ot
the knight this anticipation had a ter
'rible effect; he became pale and hag
gard, and his countenance assumet
such a disturbed appearance, the in
mates of the castle were of opinion tha
the apparition gave warning of hit
death. It was not so.
One day as was his custom, tilt
knight rode to the chase, and in hit
'present distraction of mind he ap
proached, unaware, that part of tht
country where the old woman with tht
white hair had appeared to him, ant
which he horn that time, had withgreai
care avoidec. Again the dogs sprung
up the heigh, howling, and looked
fearful into the cavern. The affright
ed baron in vain called them back,
They stood as if fascinated on the
dreadful spot; but on this occasion no
one appeared to chase them away.
i They then crept into the cavern, anti
from its dark bosom the knight still
heard their moanings and cries.
At last he summoned resolution,
sprung from his horse, and with de
termined courage, clambered up the
gteep height. Advancing into the cav
ern he beheld the hounds crouched
round a wretched mossy couch, on
which the dead body of a woman lay
stretched out.
On drawing near her, he recognized
the pure white hair of the formidable
lantern bearer.
The little horn lantern stood near
her, on the ground, and the features
were those of his only child!
More slowly than the faithful hounds,
who from the beginning had known
their young mistress, did the unhappy
knight become aware whom he saw be
fore hitn; but dissipate every deubt,
there lay a paper on the breast
of the dead body, on which with
her own blood, her hand had traced
the following words:
“In three nights the wanderer’s hair
became white, through grief for the
death of her lover.—She saw it in the
brooks. Her hair he bad often called
a net, in which his life was entangled.
Net and life were both by one Stroke
destroyed. She then thought of those
holy ones of the church, who in humili
ty have lived unknown and despised be
neath the parental roof, and, as a
penance, she has besought alms, from
ner father’s castle, and lived among
he rocks from which her lover fell.
But her ponance draws near its end;
the crimson stream fails. Ah! fath
She would have written “father,”
but the stream was exhausted, which,
with unspeakable sorrow, the knight
perceived bad issued from a deep wound
in her left arm.
He was found by bis servants near
the corpse, in silent prtver, his hounds
moaning beside him. He buried his
daughter in the cavern, from which he
never afterwards came out. The un
happy hermit forced every one from
him; his faithful dogs alone he could
not drive away; and mournfully they
watched together by the side of their
young mistress, and beside their sor
rowing lord, and when he also died,
their sad bowlings first made it known
to the surrounding country.
BEGinNtXC OF THE YEAR IN
VARIOUS NATIONS.
The Chaldeans’and Egyptians’year
was dated from the autumnal equinox.
The ecclesiastical year of the Jews be
gan in the spring; but in civil affairs
they retain the epoch of the Egyptain
year. The ancient Chinese reckoned
from the new moon nearest the middle
of Aquarius. The year of Romulus
commenced in March, and that of Nu
ma in January. The Turks and Arabs
date their year from the 16th of J>ily.
Dremschild, or Gemscliild, Ging of
Persia, observed, on the day of his
public entry into Persepolis, that the
sun entered into Aries; and in com
memoration of this fortunate event, he
ordained the beginning of the year to
be removed from the autumnal to the
vernal equinox. The Brachmun begin
their year w ith the new moon in April.
The Mexicans begin in February, when
the leaves begin to grow green. Their
year consists of eighteen months, hav
ing twenty days in each; the last five
are spent in mirth, and no business is
suffered to be done, nor even any ser
vice in the temples. The Abyssiniana
have five idle days at the end of their
year, which commences on the ‘26th of
August. The American Indians reckon
from the first appearance of the moon
at the vernal equinox. The Moham
medans begin their year the minute in
which the sun enters Aries. The Ve
netians, Florentines, and the Pisans,
in Italy, began the year at the vernal
equinox. The French year, during
the reign of the Merovingian race, be
gan on the day on which the troops
were reviewed, which was the Ist of
March. Uhder the Carlovingians, it
began on Christmas-day, and under
t,.e Capetians on Easter-dav. The
ecclesiastical begins on the first Sunday
in Advent. Charles IX. appointed, in
1564, that for the future the civil year
should commence on the Ist of Janu
ary. The Julian calendar, which was
so called from Julius Caesar, and is the
old account of the year, was reformed
by Pope Gregory in 1582, which plan
was suggested by Lewis Lilio, a Cala
brian astronomer. The Dutch, and
the Protestants in Germany, introduced
the new style in 1700. The ancient
clergy reckoned from the 25th M'.rch;
and the method was observed in Britain
until the introduction of the new style,
A. D. 1752; after which our year
commenced on the Ist of January.
From tlie Union.
IMPORTANT INVENTION.
The following communication was
1 handed to us by the author, Rufus Por
ter, Esq., who is well known to us as
the former eJit< r of the Scientific Jimeri
-1 can and as a man well versed in a
I knowledge of the arts, and invention.
He is a man of superior intelligence
and of great honesty of character, and
1 we do not hesitate to say, that any fact
stated upon his own knowledge may be
relied upon implicity. We do not
know whether all the great result*
which he anticipates from the invention
which he describes, can be realized;
but he has stated some remarkable
facts, the results of his own oxperi
meuts, which would seem to justify the
anticipations in which he indulges, ll
1 the invention shall turn out to be what
the inventors now promise themseive
it will be, it is certainly a most won
derful discovery, and will create anew
era in the arts and in civilization:
Messrs. Editors: I am authorized
to announce the discovery and practi
cal test of the most important scientific
invention ever yet produced or brought
i to light since the world has been in
habited by man—an invention which
j must eventually, and almost immediate
ly, produce an immense revolution in
the commercial intercourse and busi
ness in general throughout the world;
ard, although it will break down and
ruin many of the most important branch
es of business and avenues of wealth,
with hundreds of wealthy corporations
and business establishments, yet it will
build up thousands of others, and con
tribute hundreds of millions to the
benefit of mankind, especially to the
American community.
The first and main feature, and
foundation of this invention, and which
at once opens a field for hundreds ol
other inventions, is the discovery by
Henry M, Paine, Esq., of a ready and
almost expenscless mode of decompos
ing water and reducing it to the gase
ous state. By the simple operation of
a very small machine, without galvanic
batteries, or the consumption of metals
or ecids, and only the application ol
less than one three-hundredth (1-iiOO)
part of one horse power, Mr. Paint
produces 200 cubic feet of hydrogen
gaq and 100 feet of oxygen gas pel
hour. This quantity of these gases,
I (the actual cost of which is less than
one cent) will furnish as much heat by
combustion as 2,000 feet of the ordina
ry coal gas, and sufficient to supply
light equal to three hundred common
lamps for ten hours; or to warm an
ordinary dwelling-house twelve hours,
including the requisite heat for the
kitchen; or to supply the requisite heat
for one horse power of steam, This
invention has been tested by six
months’ operation, applied to the light
ing of houses, and recently the appli
cability of these gases to the warming
«>f houses has also been tested with
perfectly satisfactory results. A steam
engine furnace and parlor stove, both
adapted to the burning of these gases,
have been invented, and measurefftaken
for securing patents thereof.
Mr. Paine has one of his machines,
new and elegant, now in full operation
aud publicly exhibited, aud may be
expected to exhibit the same in this
city within twenty days. The only
actual expense of warming houses by
this apparatus is that of winding up a
weight (like the winding up of a clock)
ones a day; and the heat produced may
we as easily graduated and regulated
an the fleiae of a common gas-burner.
No smoke whatever is produced, but a
very small quantity of steam, sufficient
to supply the requisite fnoisture to the
atmosphere. In its application to the
production of steam powet, it will re
duce the expense thereof to the mere
wear of machinery, ana will immedi
ately produce an immense demand for
sieatn engines, and induce the estab
lishment of thousands of manufacturing
mills, reduce the expense of traveling,
and increase the demand for agricul
tural produce, while it ruins the coal
and gas business, and such manufac
turing establishments as depend on
monopoly and high prices. This in
vention, moveover, removes completely
the only obstacles which have hitherto
existed to aerial navigation—the diffi
culty of procuring hydrogen ga9, and
carrying a supply of fuel; and it may
now be considered a matter of tolerable
certainty that men will be seen swiftly
and safely soaring in various directions
before the first of May next. These
facts, being of immense importance,
should not be longe r withheld; and 1
therefore would avail myself of your
widely-circulating journal to present
them to the publie.
Yours, respectfully,
R. PORTER.
Washington, Dec. 22, 1849.
[From the German of Jean Paul Richteo.]
THE NEW YEAR’S NIGHT OF AN
UNHAPPY MAN.
An old man stood at the window or
New Year’s uight gazing, with at. ex
pression of fearful despondency, upon
the motionless, unfading heavens, anc
thence on the still, pure, white earth,
on which there were none so friendless,
so unblessed with repose as himself
Meanwhile his grave opened near him
It was no longer beautified by the
verdure of youth, but desolate will
•nows of age; and from the whole rich
season of his life, he brought to it noth
ing but errors, sins, and maladies, s
shattered body and a blighted soul, a
bosom full of poison and an old age
I withered by remorse. The sunny dayt
lof his youth tinted around him like
spectres to drag him back to the cleai
and early morning, when his fathei
first placed him at the crossways ol
life, of which the right be over the
radiant road of virtue to a distant, quiet
land lull of light and waving with har
vests; the lelt over the decayed path ol
vice, conducted to a dark cavern full ol
distilling poisons, (rightful serpents,
and dense, sweltering vapors.
Ah! tlie seipents twined themselves
ar nnd his breasts, and the poison
drops fell upon his tongue, uniil he
knew not where he was. In unutter
able anguish he madly cried fo heaven,
“Give me my youth again! Oh, father,
place tne anew upon the diverging
roads, that 1 may make another
choice!” But his lather and his youth
had passed away. He saw phantom
tires dance over the fens, and become
extinguished in the grave-yard, and he
said, “They are my days of folly!”
He beheld a star shoot trom heaven
and bursting in its fail shroud itself in
darkness on the earth. “Lo! it is I!”
sighed a bleeding heart, while the fangs
ot remorse buried themselves deeper
in his rankling wounds.
Feverish phantasy displayed to him
the birds of ill-omen singing over the
roofs; the windmill lifted up its huge
arms as if to crush him; while a wizurd
left in the dead-house, gradually as
sumed his features. In the heat of his
struggle, the new year’s music chimed
down in the church towers like a dis
tant sacred psalm. He was tenderly
affected. He glanced around the hori
zon and over the wide-spread earth; as
he thought of the friends of his youth
—who now, happier and better than
he, were the models of society —the
lathers of prosperous children and load
ed with blessings—and he exclaimed,
“Oh, I, like you, might have passed
this first night with slumber resting on
mine eyes unmoist w ith tears, had 1
out been willing! I might have been
happy, dear parents, had I fulfilled
your new year’s wishes and given heed
to your new year’s admonitions!”
Amid these burning memories of his
earlier hours, the wizard wearing his
lineaments arose, until at last super
stition, which sees spirits, and peers
into futurity, transformed it into a liv
ing youth, who, in the posture of the
boy of the Capitol, was drawing a
thorn from his foot; but his former
blooming aspect was sadly and mys
teriously changed.
He could look no longer. He cov
ered his eyes, from which a thousand
hot tears were gushing out and stream
ing down upon the snow. In agony
that refused consolation, he only sigh
ed, “Return,oh,youth, return!” And
his youth did return, as on the year’s
birth-night he had so fearfully dream
ed. He was again a young man, but
his wanderings were np yision. Never
he less he thanked God that he could
turn from the darksome paths of vice
and start upon the sunny way of virtue,
which stretched into the laud of the
harvests.
Turn with him, thou that standest in
the way of errors? This terrible dream
will at some future time by thy judge;
but when, iu sorrowful accents, thou
say, “Oh, beautiful hours of youth,
return!” they may give no heed to thy
summons.
They Sat. Whenever anybody
comes to you with a story concerning
somebody or anything, and prefaces it
with the stereotype phrase, ‘ikey say
you may rest assured that nine times
out of ten, that report, remark, or
story, is a lie. When the author of a
report must be suppressed, there is
something wrong in 'Denmark.’ No
story, true in all its parts, need be
prefaced with 'they say Let those who
know it report it boldly, or keep it an
entire secret. We could bring some
illustrations of this subject, did we
deem it at all necessary. No doubt
every man will readily apply it to him
self.—Columbia Dan.
Whatever Gcd has made m per
fect,” said a western preacher to his
hearers.—" What do you think of me?”
said a hunchback, rising and Exhibit
ing bis own deformity. "Think of
you>” replied the preacher—"why,
that you are as perfect A hunchback
as I ever saw in my life.”