salem witchcraft —slavery
in the district, ac.
washington, june 11 1849.
that old salem witchcraft, what a
strange business it was! how it de
luded some of th“ brightest minds of
the time! the sincere lover of hu
manity looks back to the scenes ofj
that period with deep pity. i observe;
of lute the editor of u boston paper,
has favored his readers with long dis
quisitions on the subject. he is a
u aro observer of human conduct, and,
1 dare say, had some good reason for.
showing up, attlie present time, the
cheating and enchantment that so
sorclv afflicted the early puritans. 1
wish i could enlist his quick sight to
ferrei out the witchcrafts, and his ef
fective pen to expose them to the pub
lic observation, which still lurk in this;
community. it is a matter ot doubt in
11 y wind whether old 1 otton mather
aid his associates were more complete-!
ly cheated by appearances than many
people among us are at ibis very hour.
as to the fact of infernal-possession, or
bedevilment, 1 am sure the certainty
•md advantage are all on our side,
..1 the present time, over the miserable
victims of suspicion, persecution and
the gailows in l*»80! in that case,
there was little or no satisfactory evi
dence of bedevilment. in ours it is
most abundant and conclusive.
let me jot down here and there a
fact as it turns up in the run of a few
davs. not long since, at baltimore,
my business led me to the wharl just
as the philadelphia boat was about to
-tart. there were present from twelve
to twenty intelligent, well behaved,
finely dressed colored people, chiefly
belonging to philadelphia, as 1 learned.
they were on to attend a genteel wed
ding, and were now about to take the
steamboat on their return as a bridal
party, with the new married pair.
could they go to the “captain’s office”
like other decent people, and buy their
tickets' before one of them could
*tep upon tiie boat, they must go to an
old ware-house, and there have some
white man known to the person in at
tendance, to vouch for the freedom ol
each one of them by name. the re
corti is made up. they then are allowed
to go on board and pay as much money
as anvbodv. it seems to me this i» a
strange flourish of republican sensibili
ty. recollect a few years ago in
canada, how strongly disposed i felt to
light, rather than endure the imperti
nent inquiries of a custom-house of
ficer about my residence, name, age,
occupation, destination, and the like.
wouldn’t it sorely puzzle the old witch
es to make u satisfactory choice be
tween the despotism of kingcraft and
the despotism of ‘democracy?’ for
one, if my rights mus*. be trampled
down, let it be under the iron heel ol
horan grand monarch, lar rather than
through the petty vexations imposed
bv lha spawn <>l vulgar insolence and
tyranny. but tins outrage upon decen
cy and public law is practiced of course
for the security and special benefit ol
slavery. it is intended to guard one
of its exposed outposts.
a week ago last monday morning
i look the cars at baltimore for wash
ington. while standing on the plat
form where passengers step mto the
ran, rev. john f. cook of this city
came up and entered into conversatioi
with me. he had been to bahitnor*
to preach the day before.—while talk
mg we advanced a few steps, wind
brought us opposite the jim crow car
in winch were seated a clerk or runne
from donovan’s alave-pen, with liv.
•lavas, a young man and woman, tin
the north star.
exact picture of despondency and des
olation, and three children, whoseemei
satisfied with the noveky of the scene
about them. these slaves weie or
their wav to alexandria, to be sent
thence overland, by bruin mill, tc
the far southern market. while chat
ting with me, mr. cook was obliged t«i
jump on board tins car, with the slaves
and the wretch having them in charge,
as it was off. upon taking my seat ir
a car, which usually carries the well
dressed and orderly sort of travelers,
1 observed a colored git i with a pale,
puling little white child in her arms,
crowded into a seat with a young w hite
►rnan, apparently the father ot the
child. the child mad" itsetf conspicu
ous, bv noise and .awtuesi. for a
time, hut was at last soothed by its
colored nurse. of course the passen
gers were crowded close around the
colored girl and no one took offence.
certainly, i make no complaint now.
who is john f. cook? \n by was
not lie in the same car with ine? we
i are personal inends. john h. cook is
a well educated man. and a thorough
gentleman in all his deportment. he
is the minister of a highly respectable
presbyterian congregation in this city,
and a the head of a school as well
trained and flourishing as any other in
s washington. his unblemished life
and integrity of character command for
him universal respect and confidence.
it would probably be very difficult to
1 select a man in this community more
devoted and m every way more useful.
he happens to range somewhere about
j halfway between the pure anglo-saxon
and the doomed race' lliat excludes
him from the respectable car, while
slavery thrusts the poor, simple, dull
colored girl into it. more properly
and truly speaking—slavery is the
tyrant who presides over this whole
business. it banishes mr. cook, with
his intelligence and refinement, to the
jim crow car, to brood over the gross
insalt to his manhood and the outrage
to his people in the person of the help
less slaves, while it puts into the rich
est seat the simple, coarse, black
nurse, to the mortification and annoy
ance of those who are compelled to
witness the transaction. i shall like to
have the boston editor or anybody*
else show, if it can be done, in w hat
respect the theory of witchcraft adopted
aryl acted upon by cotton mather and
the dupes ol his times is one whit more
absurd, extravagant, foolish or wicked
than the theory of human nature and
relations extensively received and ap-j
plied amone us at the present time. as!
to its fatai effects, that old witchcraft
delusion was confined and comparative
ly inconsiderable. it was the blindness|
and effervescence of an hour. our de-j
lusion is awful in the extent of its
havoc, in the depth of its cruelties. it
sweeps away at a blow the center
column of christ's gospel—jhc one
ness of the human race in origin, pow-j
ers and destiny.
a poor woman was put into jail
about a week since it is the jail thatj
cost the people ot’ the united states
nearly or quite sixty thousand dollars.,
had this woman committed any crime?.
not the least in the world. her mis
tress wants to sell tier and pocket the!
money—that’s all. she put her into
jail simply to know where she is when'
she finds a customer. this poor wo-j
man offered for sale expects to be con
fined in a few weeks. she has a
husband and mother, but neither o‘|
them is allowed to go into the jail to.
visit her. the husband tried to talk
to her through the grated window, the
other day, but was driven off by some
menial of the establishment. amanda,
the slave woman, is a member oi the
methodist church, which takes the
name of bethlehem. 1 hear she is in
good standing in the church, and sus
tains a fair and good character gene
rally. the mistress—the owner—the:
trader—who is she? she is miss a.|
a venerable spinster, a few years i
ago from virginia, and now residing in
this city. she brought with her thisj
woman, her mother and two ot three
children, upon whose wages she has
lived for some years past, and now
purposes to put amanda in her pocket.
she i miss a. a.i is a member of the
methodist episcopal church, belongs
to the mckendree chapel congrega
tion, and attends class regularly. 1
am glad to say some of the brethren 1
arc a little stirred about this transac
tion.
within a few days another young;
wife, with an infant child in her arms,
has been put into this same people’s j
jail. she is seized upon by the sher
iff, and one hundred and eighty dollars
levied upon her. this is done by a
woman, too—a mrs. or miss m. of
prince george s county, md. mrs. j
m. sold the woman a few years since,
with her two children, for six hundred
ind fifty dollars, and has received the
;ntire sum, within fifty dollars, with
he interest, (say, eighty dollars,) and
tow ievies upon her for this balance.
—the husband procured a purchaser,,
md has himself contrived to pay up
vjso of the original sum. the balance
a vet due, not to the woman, but to
,ome one else, who made the purchase.
the lawyers have got hold of the case,
md whether the anxious husband w ill
de able to save his wife, or be com
jelled to give her up. heaven only
mows.
these few slight incidents will help
you to see, n little, how we live nnd;
yret on in this part of the country.
have we any occasion to dig up old
superstitions and witchcraft or may
we find full occupation in exposing and
combating those that remain? is it not
enough to make one sick at heart, to
see, at this noon of the xlxth chris
tian century, piracy, the sanctioned
usage of society? how long shall
right is of no sex—truth is of no 0)i/)r—god is the father of us all, and all we arf. brethren
we grow weary and taint in looking,
i before those who have prayers to offer,
testimonies to maintain, ballot-boxes tc
i wield, will shake themselves from slotli
hand stupidity, assert their sovereign
majesty, and swear before “israel and
the sun,’* these enormities shall nc
longer bs tolerated
i there is a strong disposition on the
part of slaveholders in this district tc
i‘ sell their slaves. they anticipate the
agitation of congress with the ques
tion of emancipation. ii they can
sell, at high market prices, the smart
est and most valuable of their slaves,
ami get congress to pay tor the old
and refuse ones, when they must give
them up, that will all be decidedly
rk-ver _nd cowif jrtad”'* n. is t'.e
game. you, at the free north, know
but little of the miseries endured by
the colored people here. not a day
passes, that some family is not torn
to pieces and made desolate by the
diabolical traffic in tiie bodies and
souls of men.”
the case of drayton and sayres
has gone through the forms of the
courts. they stand convicted of the
aicftil crime of “carrying out of the
district of columbia” seventy-one
“persons!” that is the length and
breadth of their offences.—lt is not
proved, that they inveigled, urged, ad
vised or asked them to go. it is not
pretended, they did anything of the
kind. the seventy-one “persons”
were found on their schooner, pearl,
going down the potomac; that is all.
drayton is fined one hundred and forty
dollars for each of the “persons” and
sayres one hundred for each of them,
the whole sum footing up seventeen
thousand and forty dollars! they are
committed to jail till payment is made,
one-half the tine-money goes to the
schools of the county and the other to
the rascals claiming the “pet sons." it
will be good hard money when it is
paid, probably! it is for the people of
the north to say what shall be done
next in the case of these noble martyrs
to the fanaticism and ferocity of slave
ry.
thk image of god cut in
ebony,
a letter to the free (mound population of '.hr
united states und etsewhere. inscribed, (with
sincere respect for the virtues anil talents by which
many among them are distinguished) to those
ministers oj the gospel, who arc of afriean par.
entngc and descent
brethren and friends,
the task which 1 have un
dertaken of thus publicly addres-j
sing you, is felt to he cne of by no
means easy accomplishment. a diffi
cult is perceived at its very commence
ment, arising from an inability to ex
press in a fitting manner, that variety of
emotion and correspondent thought,
which crowd upon the mind and heart
when, through the medium of a letter)
inviting your serious attention, your,
.history,as a people, is more immediately
brought before the writer’s considera
tion. the wrongs which you have
endured at the hands of the proud and|
savage white man. iiave been so deep,
so aggravated, and so long contin
ued that no reflecting and benevolent
christian cancontemplate them without
sentiments 01 poignant regret end
shame. the posture of the european
mind toward ihat of ilie african,
should he repentant and self-abased, ac.d
while in this, the world’s 11 better hour,
we offer you sincere expressions ot a
friendly interest, and affectionate
sympathy we should do so with the
acknowledgement that we are only
discharging debts of .kindness, the full
payment of which has been too long
delayed; and that you by accepting
these arrears in a kindly spirit, will
deserve our thanks tor the instructive
lesson you will thus have taught us, ot
a forbearing temper, nnd a generous
oblivion of past misdeeds.
you will notwithstanding readily
admit, that, when we name the hon
oured names of clarkson, \v ilberforce,'
buxton. gurney, allen, and many
others, i not to mention those tiring
philanthropists, whose hearts are pene
trated with a deep love of the african
race, and throbbing with an intense in
terest in the cause of their freedom,
as well as that of other branches of
the human family)—we have reason to
rejoice “with joy unspeakable” that
the dark and gloomy picture of your
nation s wrongs, is here and there re
viewed l»y tints of a brighter, warmer
glow, producing the happy effect of
manifesting to you, that the heart of
the “stranger has not been alwuvs cold
and insensible, but that many amongst
us, have pitied you deeply, loved you
truly, respe ctcd you sincerely, und
served vou faithfully. i heir ardent
sympathy, their generous compassion,
for vour insulted and agonized race,met
from the public,with a response as gener
ous and ardent, resulted m a grand
national act.the merit of which needs no
tulogium w ith you. emancipation in the
west indies is not recalled as a source
of national glorying(for all that is good
cometh from on high) but as a means
of relief to the pain caused by the sor
rowful review of fearful injustice, base
treachery, and atrocious inhumanity.
we do, we ought to cling to these ven
erated names with affectionate respect
and we are happy in believing that you
will meet us hare, with the most cor
d.al sympathy, deeming such a passing
tribute of regard for their memory, in
serted in a letter addressed to yourseives
as equally becoming for us to offer,
and lor you to accept. t l.etc are in
great britain and ireland, the
“earnest few,” who are devoting
considerable talent and untinug energy
to the great, the good, the noly cause
of african freedom; and, in penning
these pages, it i* a high i r tlllc ®tiori
te me toknow and to feel that i am not,
rochester, n. y.. friday, july 6. 1849.
'as it were, writing alone, though 1
yam alone, while writing. they are
o with me still. in the silence of my
h solitary chamber i seem to hear their
n loud speaking voices uniting; with me
d in every good w ish and large desire for
o your best happiness and truest wel
fare; and i can truly say, that, should
p either this, or preceding efforts, in any
o degree help on the cause for w’hich
e they were put forth, such a happy re
suit will have been chiefly attributable
l to the more successful aud ampler
works of others, through the stimulus
thus given by them to mv own.
the above leaves much unsaid,
j which our hearts feel; but as it is not
my purpose to trespass very long upon
tim readci s attention, will allow
f me to pass on to the immediate object
;of the letter which is now submitted to
f your indulgent and candid notice. to
1 address the free colored population
resident in the united states, upon
any other subject than one either di-
i rectly or indirectly connected with sla
very, would, in my m nd, be an unwise
attempt to direct their attention from
that which ought to be, and which
therefore,we trust,is the incessant theme
of their private thoughts, their public
gatherings, and their closet devotions.
it is then, upon the abolition of
america’s national crime, that i would
wish to offer a few observations,
earnestly and respectfully urging a
slight claim to your consideration of
them, as founded upon a sincere, deep, i
and righteous desire on the part of a
britou to witness the final triumph of|
liberty, over a sin so- tremendous,
so utterly viitue-killing, as that of sla
very. in what i may utter, that shall|
be right, and to the purpose, many
others, as before remarked, are fully
prepared to symapathize; in what may
be deemed useless or injudicious, let'
me beg to be considered as alone res
ponsible for. my friends, 1 w ill not in
j suit your understanding by asking you
whether you do not experience an un-
shaken confidence in the goodness of
god, an unwavering trust in the great
reformatory principles and spirit of thej
gospel of christ, an unquestioning faith i
t in the progress of the nations, aud a,
j firm reliance/m human instrumentality
(aided by reflection and prayer) ns a
powerful means of producing good.,'
i j this sentence shofilffbe inscribed oil;
every generous jieart—the evils j
■j which man in a vicious state,has caused,
man in an improved state, may remedy'
and remove. the present age is pre- j
eminently one offcxeitement, and of en
quiry into the validity of <j!d opinions,
of investigation into old abuses, of an
impeachment of old and pernicious
systems. this impeachment cannot
permanently be withstood, this invest
igation must be fatal, this inquiry must
bo left open it is well it should be so.
truth is an incorruptible seed,” and,
the “mind of man is a fruitful soil.’’;
plant acorn, and the undeviating;
law of vegetation will give you back,!
to the patient growth of years the large j
i and*noble oak. be assured that the!
moral and intellectual law is as‘the liat-j
ural law. plant, root yourself, as it
were, in a good principle. shift not j
your ground, and time shall show you
vigorous and sturdy, doing battle with
the wrong, as the oak with the stormy
blast, “more fixed below, the more dis
turbed above.” let us now consider
how this searching spirit must and will
affect the question of slavery. men,
have long dreamed that they had an un-.
disputed title to absolute property in
other men, and a careless unthinking
world lias permitted them to enact the 1
dream into a frightful reality. but “a
change has come over the spirit” of the j
times. a title to absolute property in
man, and irresponsible power over him, j
sounds now strange and awful —the doc-'
uinent is re-examined, the validity of,
i the claim is disputed, and as the ensla
ved and the enslaver present them-,
selres in their respective chracters.
of defendant and plaintiff, an upright
and impartial judge will give this sen
tance: —if the capital flaw in the in
strument fully made out, no matter
how long it has remained undetected,
no matter for how many generations
tiie title deeds may have passed undis
puted from father to son.no matter
how hard a case it may either seem or:
be, for the plaintiff, the defendant’s
claim is the claim of justice, and the
i vitiated deed “must go.” further, if;
the conscience ot a vaet portion of the
americans has long been hoodwinked,
by being told that slavery is a patriar
chal institution, and continued upon
old testament authority, and they
now begin to .dge for themselves,,
and discover, that while american,
slaves have not one recognized right,;
but are declared to be absolutely and
for ever,“chatties personal ’’—the jew
ish bondsmen were a privileged class,
having personal, civil and religious
rights, secured to them by law, the)
will inevitably draw the just conclusion
from this comparison ot slavery with*
servitude, that although the latter was
a patriarchal, the former is nothing but
a gross heathen institution. it added
to this, thev, with enlarged in ellect, are j
not dull to perceive, that even the
mild servitude of the old and inferior j
covenant was inteuded and designed
to give place to the freedom giving pre
cents and spirit of the new and the bet
ter- —no matter how long theamencan
mmd has been aliened, how long
blundering notions of 0 6 testament
institutions haveprevai ed, or how long
the glorious light shed by the new-
tesfameni has been objured, inquiry
will not rest, energy will not tire, cour
age will not fail, till the comment re
sound# with the cry of “the heathen
institution must go.”
if avarice, cruelty, injustice, treech- j
i ery, and lu*t, have formed a close and,
land unholy league, and, by their evil.
i machinations and infernal agency have
erected that theatre lor the ready per
r t'ormance of the worst crimes, and the
r unblushing manifestation of the lowest
i passions—a human market place, and
human beings are at length looking
upon it, with indignant self reproach,
i with grief, and with terrifiedtfcnazemcnt
at their long, then heartless, their *tu
i pid apathy—no matter how firmly the
theatre is constructed, how skilled the
performers, or hnw enormous the gains;
these are perceived to be wages of ini
i quity, those the children of satan, this
the temple of wickedness, and each
righteous soul pronounces its unhesi
tating liar, that the human-market
“must go.” finally, if thou hast wai
ted for the “day spring’' from on high
to visit the “region of the shadow ©f
death,” if thou hast listened for a voice
to summon to the bar ot public opinion
1 the monster which so long derided the
,l tears of modest women, the cries of
helpless children, and the anguish ot
.jstrong men, rejoice! tor the monster
does stand at the bar of public opin
,j ion—and that public is the world the
day spring is at hand; and; as it
“bends its light” upon this cowering
iniquity, it “hits it with destruction.”
slavery must go.
my friends, you on the other side of
the atlantic, and we on this, feel
alike a strong and joyful conviction,
that this havoc spreading evil, w ill and
must be stayed. krc long society will
j “strike its knell,” but until that hour
arrives, much truth must be calmly
•j though earnestly discussed, much
must be nobly done, much must be
patiently endured. every earnest kind,
j whither among you or the fairer popu-
i lation, should hold itself prepared to
j pass through it, in the might of the
lord god.
j vour position, my brethren, t the
j united states, h* one of peculiar diffi
cully and trial.
the cup of freedom of which you
have at length been permitted to par
take, is as yet by no means wholly
sweet. the poison of prejudice still
lurks at the bottom of the vessel, and
j still infuses some taste of bitterness to
the whole draught. while “respect
is the fountain of kindness” we all know
that the “transition from contempt to
‘injury is but short.” an unrighteous
and wide-spread contempt of man is
america’s grand defect, and forms in
fact, the basis upon which she has
erected her stupendous amphitheatre
'of crime. america forgets that in man,
wherever found, we trace the beautiful
i design, the wonderful workmanship, the
nice execution, of the “great,master
lof all art.” man is in the “style and
manner of omnipotence.” man’s works
may and should excite our admiration.
the moviug machine, the breathing
statue, the speaking canvass, the tem
ple of worship, arc well calculated to
strike us with respect, yet ought we to
look bevond these and exclaim, “man
himself is the work to be wondered at,
man himself is the work of god.
we have said, that your position is
j one of peculiar difficulty and trial, and
we do not acknowledge this without at
j the same time offering you the aid of
sincere sympathy while enduring the
one, and our cordial wishes that
r strength and wisdom may be voueh
safed to you for overcoming the other.
!it is not overlooked by others, nor
should it be by yourselves, that your
position is also one of great importance
and interest. a contest incomparably
grand is going on in the f niterl states.
the issue hopefully anticipated, is not
only personal liberty to three millions
of our brethren, but through their en
i franchisement, the advantages ot an
indelible and instructive lesson to the
whole earth, that to plant slavery upon
any corner of its surface, is to unite
and stimulate for coming years, the
worst passions ot the worst minds to
the worst deeds ot legalized cruelty
and injustice, and to lay upon every
inch of the soil, that “curse of un
righteousness,” which must and will
be redeemed, sooner or later, by the
noble few who will bear anything and
everything, rather than their own and
their country dishonour. ibis is a
contest, not between large and compre
hensive souls, differing in their idea of
good, but each urging upon their
country the adoption of their respective
measures, with such ability and zeal,
that it may seem difficult to determine
where the “balance of good lies.”.
no. here the line between the con
tending parties is broad, determined,
unmistakable. the “balance” of evil,
is clearly perceived, for it is, m one
word, a contest between the just and
the unjust. the defiled standard of
aiaverv, supported by a vicious self
interest alone, is erected on one side;
the unstained banner of virtuous free
dom waves aloft on the otber. he
who rallies round this, goes for the
right: he who ranges under that, goes
for the wrong.
brethren and friends, —to doubt
that many, very many among you, are
watching the progress of the great
freedom movement, with an intense,
land absorbing interest, is to doubt that
you are men. it is a movement to’
'which all the dependents of injured
africa should direct their serious, their
close, their fixed attention, as its
success will affect the intellectual ad
vancement, the social position, and the,
moral health of millions with whom
they are nationally connected, and who
thus appear to have an especial claim
upon the sympathy and aid of their
free and intelligent colored brother or
sister, of whatever country, or religion,
or party. i have entitled this little
i tract, “a lettter to the tree-colored
population of the united states, and
elsewhere,” end deeply is it to be
desired, that every intelligent and
virtuous african •should contribute the
influence of his character anti talent,,
to the promotion of universal freedom,
in missionary in africa, in our
own colonies, and especially in the
lj united states, we have abundant proof
that among our darker brethren, as
among ourselves, our common father
j has dispensed with no unsparing band,
those choicest gifts, the feeling heart,
and the judging inimi” u is by the
happy union ot these qualities, that a
correct moral and religious taste is
formed and settled, and when it is*
formed, can its purifying influence be
better exerted than in efforts to aid that
cause, which aims to procure for mil-,
lions of africans now existing, and
1 millions yet unborn, the sacred rank,
the mighty privileges, and the glorious
expectation of the true disciples of.
jesus christ? as, however, the strug
gle for the complete subversion of
pro-slavery principles and practice, is
maintained in the united states, with
a vigor, a resolution, and an immove
abiiity of purpose, to be found nowhere
else on the face of the globe, and as!
your couiiuct and bearing with regard
to this great subject, will and must tell,
either for its advancemsnt or retro
gression, you might naturally expect
that those friends of africa’s descend
ants, who. on this side of the atlantic
felt prompted to address a letter to anv
of them, would address that letter
more particularly to yourselves. vou
would expect also, that it would con
tain not merely expressions of sympa
thy and respect for you as men, but
j also some allusion to those duties by
the faithful performance of which you
may prove to the world that you ire
i christian men.
(to it* confirmed.)
i>tfn diaky itblit’atiovs
by .mail.
the south is now being hooded with
abolition documents and newspapers.
whilst the anti-slavery standard con
tinues its offensive visits, we observe
another of the same sort —the pcnnsyl
vnniu freeman—has commenced to lie
circulated in the southern states. we
respectfully invite the attention of
president 'paylor, “the man ot the
south,” to the management of the post
office department.
these documents are treasonable.
the freeman denounces the constitu
tion of the united states as “an infa
mous and wicked covenant.’’ these
publications are not only insulting to
the people of the south, but are in
tended to overthrow our institutions'
and plunge the country into the direst
evils.
the government, under the consti
tution, we believe, has the t.
trol of the post office depai i,,
and also the power to regulate w hat
matters shall be carried through the 1
mail. in the absence of legislative!
enactment then—for we believe no law.
exists 01f the subject, .mr. caihoun’s
hill in 183fi havingbeen lost at its final
reading in the senate—we conceive it
to be the duty of the kxccutive—a
duty which he owes to the people of
the south —that he should endeavour to
till the po»t office department with
men who will not, by virtue of their
office, aid m circulating these docu
ments in the southern states whore
they are prohibited by law
the recent and increasing circula
tion of these documents is beyond
doubt attributable to the knowledge i
that the post-master general is a thor
oughgoing free soil man, and in all
probability an abolitionist; and it is ;i
bad beginning for the admission of a.
southern president that the ene/nies 01
our institutions should have such con
fidence in the agents of the post office
department, and that their confidence
ihus far. has not been misplaced, j
there were scarcely one of these doc
uments or papers circulated under flu*
late administration. —s. f. pop tr.
letters of enos (i. dudley
the uncord (s it.) democrat publisher
the following utter*, written by tin- unfortu
nate man, a tew hours before fits execution.
the writer must either hive inert a double
dyed hypocrite, or a ino-.t worthy man.
probably a tew years w .*l show that f.e adds
another to the already long l:»i of innocent!
victims of thegallow*. fepij!" murdered on
circumstantial evidence
haverhill, may *2l,
dear brother avdsister hoit:
lam baout i<» leave you. i rej d
that j fet-1 within the fiilie*t
that i shall enjoy u far more tu-snaide
state of existence, t leti caim i
day and may mind a-> cleat us w iiea iii r
you saw me at the school-house, en
deavoring to exhort my fellow-men to
seek an interest in (hat saviour that i
have found so precious to me during
my soul-trying afflictions. the same
gospel that i then preached i find suf
ficient for me in all my trials, notwith
standing their severity; andl doubt not j
that the same will sustain me until
death shall close the terrific scene
through which i am about to pass
yes! that same jesus will go with and
even bear me safely across the valley
of the shadow' of death. the blessed
prospect that is before me smooths the
roughness of the way. bless god, i
can say with paul, “i am ready to be
offered. lam glad my sorrows end
so soon; then shall enjoy the presence
of him that died to save us all, and of
my dear companion who has gone be
fore me i have often wondered how
the martyrs could stand in the midst of
flames and about praises to the most
high. it is no longer a wonder;
“christ was within them, the hope oi
glory.” and though i must d*« by
gallows, yet i tin confident w
the passport from this ungodly world to
john pk’k. pi m.hhe*
whole no.so.
one ox bli*s and beauty. iis’*
promised to stand by, if v»e wji put
cor trust in him; i have found it
thus ur. ami have no reason to fear
that hi* promises will not ail be ful
filled.
a little more than one ye.tr -once, 1
was torn from my home, to which i had
a« good right as anv earthly being ha«
to in< home, and by false accusation 1
was shut out of the pale of society,
and away iroin mv children, who are
as tie nr to mu as ever children were to
a father, by the circulation of these
talsu reports the public mind has been
prejudiced to so great extent that 1 am
condemned t<> die for that which 1 nev
er did many of these reports were
so completely false that they conld not
have been told hut to injure me des
ignedly, and at that time it stirred bit
ter feelings within me, but they are ail
gone now; yes, now i love them, and
pray tiod that th y may preparo to
meet mu it murdered subject at the
liar of him that judgeth righteously
thank hod. 1 am innocent of the
crime for which l am condemned to
die, and innocent shall i stand before
that tribunal where conjecture and
circumstance are not heard but it i->
not so litre; therefore must 1 leuve
you. and b\ vour request 1 leave in
your care that little girl. in tears, 1
give her to you, in all confidence that
i leave her in the hands of tiic.se who
will be parents to one whose father and
mother can no longer guard her youth
ful venrs. teach her to pray daily,
and oh, may god be with and bless
you and her. and together sa\e you m
heaven,
\n<! now i hid vou all—farewell.
ours, in love,
enos u. dldlcv.
below is a copy of a note enclosed
within the above, and addressed to the
little girl above mentioned;
haverhill, may vj-j, itsßk
mv demi dm outer elizabeth:
i can tio longer be vour father, nor
provide for vour wants in childhood,
nor protect you from surrounding dan
gers: therefore, i have given you to
ymir father and mother lloit; they will
be kind parents to you, and you must
be a kind and dutiful child to them; ul
w.ivv he obedient and good: love them,
and improve your mind daily—and read
the bible with great care;—you will
there learn that tiod has said lie will
be a lather to tiie fatherless; with him
your mother now lives, and scon 1 shell
live with him arid her, where yve shall
die no more. now, my dear, bo o
good child, and when you arc in the
field or in the house, ask gotl to ble*w
you, and save you in heaven* to dwell
with your parents, find loves ijtjo
"hildren, and you must love him, ami
•k him to purify your little heart and
fit it for his kingdom. always love
the truth; he kind and loving to all
your playmates—‘ do to them as "you
would have them do to you.” i should
bo glad to see you, but i cannot; but
if you are a good, humble, little chris
linn, you will soon come to me; so f
must commend you to tiod, praying
you will ever trust m his grace, and
meet your parents in heaven—there
will be no more parting.
and now, mv dear, 1 must bid vou
farewell, until we meet in heaven.
i bis is from your poor dying lather,
farewell. it makes iny heart ache
to part with you, but o! do well und it
will he well w ith you when leaving this
world. may tiod lie with you, and
comfort you at all tunes, and sanctity
tiiis afflictive dispensation to vour spirit
ual good, and the good of youi broth
ers and sisters, and finally may we oil
dwell together nf last at cfin-ta right
han*t.
anecdote or v precise man. a
good story is told by the belfast jour
nal of a college professor as follows:
•he was one of your precise men. who
measured off sentences as a clerk doe*
choice ribbons. the good professoi
took it into his head to relieve the
monotony of his existence by an aquatic
excursion. the boat was unfortunate
ly capsized near the shore, and l*e was
{int in a fair war to test the virtues of
priesnitz’s theon. he was averse to
making any uncouth outcry, and had
gone down twice without saying u
word; hut just as his occiput was dis
appearing a third time, lie rolled onlrn
hack, and blowing like a porpoise, ex
claimed, rather louder than usual, “it
is anticipated thar some one will throw
me a rope!”
pit£* lpt v>. practice. —hr. chan
had ahi other, a physician, and at
time they both lived in boston. a
utryman, in search of the divine,
knocked at the doctor’s door. the fol
lowing dialogue ensued:
“does dr. channing jive here*’
*»r.”
“can i see hiin
“i am he.”
“who'your’’
“yes, sir.”
“you must have altered considerably
since i heard you preach.”
“heard me preach?”
“certainly. you are the dr. chan
ning that preaches, ain’t you?”
“oh! i see you are mistaken, now
it’s my brother who prearha— l’m the
doctor who practise*
one or the oitleti a corres
pondent of the “galveston presbyter
iau” gives an account of a burning well
in eastern texas, which emits “a dark
cloud of smoke end a sulphurous amelf
we always supposed texas was tn the
neighborhood of the place which tay
lor wished to aseign the mexicans, but
did not before know it was immediately
over it.—.i- s, buplc.
what is better than absence of mind in a railway accident! absence of body - punch
frederick douglass and charles uknox
remond will visit detroit. mich., on wed
nesday, 4th julv. and will hold three oißet
,ug» in that city. wednesday. thursday, and
friday. *th, sth. and 6th
tht*» will spend sunday and monday. **th
and oth july, at battli creek, mich.
they will l>** tn inci«o. 111., <mi tnurs
day, friday', saturday, and sunday 12th,
13th, 14th, and 15th, and will hold meetings
nn each evening
they will he in sandusky city. ohio, on
thursday, friday, and saturday, th»* 16th,
20th, aud 2dt july.
they will l*e at green plain, ohs*. sun
day, 22d july
they will ik* in con. m sus on the 251 h
july and will reach tcincinnati on the ‘27th
july, and will remain there till after the first
of august.
the friends of freedom in all ot these
places are earnestly requested to make the
necessity arrangements for meetings. —i. n.
finn the dundee (scut.) courier.
slavery in america.
it is of importance occasionally to test the
sincerity of professions, whether in nations or
individuals, and to sec how far their princi
ples and their piactice agree. this is particu
larly necessary hi the case of those who lay
cl,aim to pre-eminent purity, and win* look
down with complacent coinmisseratioti upon
the professoffc of an humbler creed. w hen
a nation throws wif the tuie ot an ancient
monarchy, and adopts the mote popular form
of government represented by a republic, it
is not unreasonable to exjiect that the great
principles of liberty and equality, on which
all republics profess to ik; based, should re
ceive some practical effect. when that poi
tion of america which constitutes the united
states was incorjkirated into one great re
public, the avowed principle o! its political
constitution was—that all men are entitled to
equal political rights, and that the govern
ment should l>e established by the voice of the
people, as expressed by universal sufltage.
without inquiring at present, whether this
form of government has been conducive either
to the greatness or the prosperity of those
who embraced it, we shall confine ourselves
to the simple question—how far the princi
ples of the union correspond with its prac
tice m the matter of slavery 7 there is a
general feeling in this country that the reports
which reach us as to the extent and severity
of the servitude which obtains in amencaare
greatly exaggerated and over-colored and,
in fact, there are many who disbelieve in tiie
existence of slavery within the united states
at all. it seems such a monstrous contradic
tion that slavery should be tolerated by a peo
ple who pride themselves upon the superior
freedom of their institutions, that many are
led to look upon the accounts which they re
ceive of its existence as mere fabrications, and
only brought lor ward for the purpose of dam
aging the republican cause. when this
subject was brought prominently before the
public some years ago. in reference to the
money obtained by the free church from
slaveholding congregations in america, many
ot those who took upon them to defend the
conduct of the receiving party, not only de
nied the existence of slavery to the extent
that was alleged, but proceeded to palliate the
system itself as not inconsistent with christi
anity. hatever effect their representations
made upon the public, they seemed at least to
satisfy their own adherents, for the subject
was allowed to sleep, and the demand for res
titution of the money was obstinately and
successfully resisted. when some of the
anti-slavery party in america came to this
country to represent the wrongs of the slave,
and the injury which had been done to the
cause ol emancipation by the countenance
given to slaveholders by the free church
deputations—their statements were contradic
ted, and the men themselves represented as
unworthy of credit. at that time we had
occasion to consider the subject, and to direct
public attention, not only to the inconsistency
of those who professed to belong to a tree
slate tolerating the existence of slavery in all
its hideous deformity, but to the further in
consistency of those who professed to have
erected a free church in this country hold
ing ministerial communion with avowed abet
tors of slavery in another. the correspon
dence which ensued betwixt the free church
and thetr slave holding brethren beyond the
atlantic, ended as we had anticipated -in
sinoke; the one party letaining their opin
ions, and the oilier party retaining the money.
in this way the “slave-stone," as it was aptly
described by one of the leaders of the free
church, had been allowed to remain in tin
building, ami the cause of slavery in america
has been thereby greatly strengthened.
we have been led into these remarks bv
the circumstance of a new orleans news
paper called the jhuly picayune having re
cently come into our hands, in which there
are some things calculated forcibly to remind
us of the existence of slavery in all its re
volting reality. the paper is dated 27th
match last, and from the number of its ad
vertistuenls lias evidently an extensive circu
lation. one department of the adveitisments
is devoted to the announcements of rewards
offered; and first hi older as if to indicate the
telative importance attached to brutes and hu
man beings in that free country, then* is a
teward of five dollars offered for a dog lost,
which is described as “a small black new
foundland slut, rose.’’ after the dog there
follow’ no lewer than five advertisments (m
one number of a daily offering rewards
of various amounts for me recovery of run
away slaves; and in order to enable our lea
ders to judge of’the actual nature and opera
tion of the accursed system, we shall present
them with one or two extracts. the first
nos m these terms —“twenty dollars re
ward.—run away from the subscriber on the
21»t instant, the black girl martha, slightly
marked with the small pox. lias a scar on
her forehead; is about 11 years of age." the
next offers the same reward for a runaway
slave, who is desorbed as ugly bob, aged
about twenty-two years, 5 feel 6 1-2 inches
high, has a scar from the left corner of his
mouth to the cheek, leans on one side when
walking. his plate is number 32*27. the
ai»ove reward will be paid for the delivery of
mm in any of the city gaols," &c. the
next la a reward ol fitly dollars lor a runaway
lave, who is described as “the mulatto lx»v
frank, belonging u*madame evenste petrel,
about 25 to 26 years of age, five feet ten or
11 inches high, stout built and bandy-legged
hat thick woolly hair;’’ and our readers wili
mark what follows in the description ‘has
received a blow neat one of ins eves from* a
-•lick, and his eve is now swollen"" another
ad vemament refers to “the mulatto boyt'hvr
lky, about 19 years of age," and who is de
scribed as having “had irons on his legs."
the last offers a reward of ten dollars for the
apprehension and delivery of the mulatto boy
burke, aged about 14 years, and who is de
scribed as having two bald place* on his head
caused by a bum(more likely by a blow al bu
a acar on his forehead." from these speci
toena, taken from one publication of a daily
newspaper, our readers will be able to foun
a tolerably correct idea ol ihe system which
prevails m that boasted land oi liberty. it
i« no wonder that there should be runa
way slaves, or that there should be the num
ber ol five, for whom rewards are offered in
one day. while there is only oue dog lost,
(liars are five human beings who have lied; and
had ihe treatment given to the latter been
no worse than what waa given to the former,
we may reasonably infer that the disproportion
ol those amissing bstwixt the two classes
would have been lest the dog w hich gsta
pre-eminence in point of pofhiori id favorsbly
disunguwhctf from the unfortunate beings who]
follow* in *l»»*—ibat while they are described!
by seal* and hruiaes. bandy-bp* and swollen)
eye*, and the marks of iron on the leg —the
more fortunate animal has no such evidence
•f cruelty to establish his identity of course
the poor slave* bad been the subtec’s of bornd
rat treasnent, as their lacerated bodies beto
ken, and had fled to escape from the intoler
able miaerv of their condition.
and r it really,possible that human being*
the workmanship of god—having the same
origin and the game destination with ourselves
who are susceptible of ail the feelings and
emotions —the joys and sorrows of humanity,
and who have soul* to be saved,—are thus
treated in a manner more cine! and degrading
than the brutes that perish 7 and this 100
under what professes to be the most popular
form of government know n among mankind,
m a country which boasts of it# superior free
dom.—which talks of universal suffrage—and
which affecte to regard the subjects of our less
popular institutions as living in a state of so
cial and political thraldom. it is useful tu
exhibit such pictures of the realities of a re-!
public, and the intelligent people of thiscoun-s
try would do well to read, learn, and digest
the lessons which they convev. with lessi
political professions and humbler popular pre
tension*. a far larger measure of real and sub-j
stantial liberty. no man can breathe the air
of britain's dependencies and lie a slave. our:
soil is sacred to the cause of freedom, and no
power on earth, we believe, could induce us*
to part with this proud distinction. we spent
twenty millions of money cheerfullv and w ith
out a grudge, in order to purchase perpetualj
emancipation for the last of tlmse who lived
in a state of servitude. but even with us
slavery was a different thing from what it is
in america. such treatment as is daily prac-
tised there would not have been tolerated iuj
anvofour colonies, where it was the com
mon potst that slaves were treated with a de
gree of kindness w hich made tlieir condituii’
[superior to that of many ot our native popu
lation. the cruelties perpetrated and per
mitted in the united states of america are aj
disgrace to any country, and until that loul
i stain shall be wiped off. all her professions of
political purity and political equality will be
regarded by the common sense ot mankind
as a mere mockery and deception. how,
strikingly are we reminded by these things of,
the immortal poet's w ords.—
“o, freedom? tir-i delight of human kind,
i .not that which iton isnien from their masters find”
henry clay.
i to the editor:
my dear sir —llenry clay’s letter to
richard pindell, esq., richly deserves, i think
to be bottled in spirits, and exhibited as a cu
rious specimen of pro-slavery morality,—as
a counterfeit for philanthropy, —to call it by
no harsher name. the coolness with'which
the writer proposes 10 banish the negroes of
kentucky, ofa future generation, at their own
expense;—the wise provision that he makes,
that he himself, and those of his own genera
tion, shall sustain no loss, or even inconve
nience. but that the sinners of the next gen
eration only shall suffer, and that the greater
i proportion of the penalty, even in their case,
shall be borne by those against whom they
i have sinned:—the tenderness with which he
ideals with the prejudices of those ‘respectable
j persons who believe that slavery is a blessing,
i that ihe institution ought 10 exist in every
1 well-organized society, and that it is even fa
vorable to the preservation of liberty;'—the
modest reluctance, which he manifests, to
force his ideas of right and wrong on the un
prepared minds of the kentuckians; —the mag
nanimity with which he professes his willing
ness to fall hack on the approbation of con
science, should they reject his disinterested
advice; —and, finally, the beautiful consisten
cy which appears between his admission—
that our duty to god requires us ‘not to subju
gate, or deal unjustly by our fellow-men, who
[are less blessed than we are, hut to instruct,
ito improve, and to enlighten them;’ and his
i proposed proviso, that ‘until the commence
ment of his system,’ that is, not improbably,
j during the whole life of himself and ins con
temporaries, ‘all the legal rights of the pro
j prietors of slaves, in t -nt, ought
to remain uniinpai,. ...^uicted;’
these various beauties of tins remarkable doc-
i ument seem to me to render it worthy of a
place in the anatomical museum of the human
heart, —in that department of it which is re
served for its monstrosities,
t 1 remain, mv dear sir, faithfully yours,
joseph hutton.
the people of color in ohio speaking
out. —'the bugle publishes a long series of,
resolutions adopted at a mass meeting of the 1
colored people of columbiana county, held on
the 13th inst., from which we condense the
following they resolve ist, that it is their
duty to organize themselves for the promotion i
ol the cause of temperance, and the liberation
of their brethren in bondage; 2, that all in
toxicating liquors as a beverage, are hurtful
to man, and tend to injure health, destroy the
mind and demoralize and corrupt ins nature 1
3, that whoever will not assist to save the in
temperate and relieve the slave is no philan
thropist: 4, that “they unhesitatingly, and
with feelings of the indignation, te-!
pudiate any and every scheme of colonization,
either at home or abroad 5, that they hail
with enthusiasm the repeal of a part of the
ohio black laws, and look upon it as the
omen of a better day 6 that they have some
thing to do with slavery in the southern
slates: 7, that the bondman's final triumph
rests upon the speedy dissolution of the ame
rican union, and the destruction of the pro-
churches; 8, that they believe all
wars contrary to the spirit of christianity and
endorse the lofty sentiment of daniel o’con
neil, that “no reformation is worthy the shed
ding of one drop of human blood 9, that no
i consistent christian can vote or take office
j under the u. s. constitution: 10, t hat they
clieri>h with enthusiasm the sentiment of jet-
sferson, that “resistance to tyrants is duty to
'god li, that they have no interest in the
perpetuation of this or any other government
1 winch sanctions the trading in the bodies and
souls of men 12, that they recommend to the
icolored people of the nation to withhold thei
support fiom pro-sravery chuiches, and give
it to those which are anti-slavery.
the frank and manly tone of these resolu
tions indicates that these long injured men be
gin to feel their manhood. it is a bright pro
mise for theii future progress and elevation.—
pa. freeman.
from ute maycville eagle, ofth' 230.
particulars of the c. m. clay difficulty.
w e exjk-cted to receive in the richmond
chronicle a full account of the fatal ren
contre between cassius m. clav and cyrus
turner, m madison county, on friday of last
week. the chronicle, however, gives none
ol the particulars, but merely mentions the
affair, and adds, “thit mr turner died on
sunday morning last, living about thirty hours
after receiving the wound. capt clay is still
in a critical condition, but the better opinion
sea ns to be that he will recover.”
w e learn the following fiom a gentleman
w 10 was on the ground; there are three pro
slavery candidates for the convention from
madison messrs. willis and chenauit, and
maj. squire turner, (father of cyrus turner)
and but one emancipation candidate. may.
burnham. at a regimental muster at wal
den’s, on 1 nursday of last week, the candi
dates sjkike, w tills and chenauit ieadiug.
maj. turner followed—( although be had
promised asaius m. clay the stand before
him) alleging that clay wu not a candi
date and the crowd was fast dispersing—and
made a long speech. city then took the
stand, and bore more heavily tn his remaiki
upon i umer than upon either of the other
candidates, and it was now evident for the
hrtt time there was some unpleasant feeling
between them b
on the next day, friday, another discussion
took place at a regimented muiur at fox
town —willis spoke first turner n**i
whan turner had spoken about an
cl*v appealed lo him to give ma-or burnham j
an opportunity of defending the eroancipa-j
uomsts and their views, but turner refitted
and hpoke half an hour longei, in a severe
rtrain, during which be read from the truej
american new spaper a portion of ihe ai tide i
that caused the lexington mob and the re-1
moral of the true amencan to cincinnati
clay now appealed to the people 10 say whe
ther it wa* fair that tin* article should be read,
unless accompanied by the statement so often
mad** by major turner. u.at the article in
question was written by t soulh carolina,
planter, (aa many of hia friends btiiered. for
the express purpose of breaking down hia
press) and sent to his office and printed while
he was sick of the typhoid fever—the a rticie,
he said, ww repulsive to his feelings and views 1
as they were to mr. turner's of any other;
man's—and if he had not been confined to a
bed of sickness it should never hare appeared
tn his paper. mr. wm. l. neale, the printer
of the true american, was on the ground and
would confirm the sratement.
maj- turner continued his speech, after this
interruption, and when he concluded, c. m.
clay took qe stand for tlie purpose of making
a kind of apology to the people for the inter
uj;t.on he had caused. he again stated that
thought each party were entitled to be
beard, and that each should be allowed a fair
division of the titoe. that the friends ol
right and justice by such a course had nothing
to lose; for if the emancipationists held in
cendiary notions, and advocated principles op
jiosed to ihe best interests of the country,
the people would judge of them correctly,
and put them down, w hile if principles were 1
founded in right and justice, it was certainly
not wrong that they should be known in older
that they may be’upiield and supported.
after making this explanation, which did
not occupy more than two minutes, he was
leaving the stand, when mr. runyon, a law
yer of richmond, at coniderable distance off, 1
plied him with questions, and clay, with the
consent ofchenault. who claimed the stump,’
endeavored to answer hitn. r?ome misunder
standing occurred in telerence to the disposi
tion made of the school fund, in which
runyon pronounced a statement made by clay
false and untrue. clay referred to an act of
ihe legislature in proof of his assertion, and
finally told runyon, who interrupted him be
fore, that he was a mere tool of turner, and
was obeying his master. clay descended
from the stand in perfect good humor, and
without expeciing a difficulty with any one,
when maj. turner remarked that ‘‘runyon
was not his tuol.’’
clay replied that whether turner knew it
or not, he was evidently his willing tool.
upon this cyrus turner, the son of the can
didate,stepped up tu (’lav,and pronounced his
statement a d—d one, and struck him in the
face. clay was soon stabbed by some one be
hind him, beat over the head with a stick by
alfred turner, and jierhaps others, and a re
volving pistol was snapped four times at his
head, bursting a cap each time, by thomas
turner, lie did not draw his knife, nor shake
oil’the hold of those who were clinging to him
until he perceived the b ood spouting forth
from his side, and believed lrom the wound
that he must die. with super-human effort
he shook of those that held him, encountered
cyrus turner, and stabbed him. the wound
took effect in the lower part of his abdomen,
resulting in his death in 34 hours.
the north star.
rochester, juyl 6, 1849
clifton house, niagara, canada j
west, june 30th.
1 shall have, for the next four weeks, to fill*
my editorial columns with incidents and im
pressions connected with my western tour;
and whjle on some accounts i regret it, i hope i
to be able lo furnish matter of interest, which 1
may plead an excuse for my absence. 1 sel-1
dom move in any direction that i do not
awaken some feeling or call forth some dem
onstration, illustrating the bitter spirit of caste!
and slavery, as it prevails in this country, lj
had not reached the “cataract,’’ steamer be
fore 1 was insulted by the ruffian, that
keeps the groggery at the steamboat wharf.
on a person so low and vulgar 1 have no in
dignation to expend. he merely reflected (in
a gross manner to be sure) the senseless and
wicked spirit of hatred universal in oui land.
the circumstances of this assault 1 may possi
bly explain at another time. 1 turn from,
them now lo speak of things more pleasant, i
the trip from rochester to lewiston, barring
the weather (it was rainy) was in every res
pect agreeable. the captain ami passengers
conducted themselves with politeness and'
kindness towards me, showing me every at
tention tfiat they paid to others, and thus’
evincing their freedom from the pitiful and'
persecuting spirit by which i am frequently!
haunted while in the use ol public convey-!
anees.
on reaching niagara yesterday morning,
and well knowing the proscriptive rules of;
hotels on the american side of the river, i ml
company with a party of friends, came im-j
mediately to the canada side of the river. on'
reaching this shore, and being once again!
under the british flag w here a man is not es-j
teemed according to his complexion, we ail
j felt like giving three cheers for queen vic- 1
totia. it is astonishing that people living:
w ithin a stone’s thiow of each oilier, should;
be so opposite in their tastes, feelings, and 1
principles. on the american side, where!
liberty is the c«xistant theme of boastful dis- j
j course w here every coin from the cent to the
i eagle, is superscribed with “liberty;” and
j where tiie oppressions of other nations are
made the topics of conversation and reproach,!
a colored man, no matter how genteel in ap
pearance, how exalted in character, how
supenor in intelligence he may be, is refused
admittance into hotels and made the subject of
insult and abuse while on the canada side,
where no such boastful pretensions are made,
we witness an entire freedom from this pro
sciiptive and vulgar prejudice. the hotel
where we now are is the most jmpular
place of resort among fashionable people on
this side the falls. on making application
for accomodation, 1 was received with that
hearty good will, to whish i am a stranget in
j the united states. there is no distinction
here on account of color. the same parlor
and the same table occupied by while persons,
aie free to us and the host, for aught
that i could see. was as attentive to our wants,
and appeared as anxious for our happiness, as
for that of any other persons under his roof.
i think my hatred of amencan slavery has
been unged with a deeper hue by witnessing
this striking contrast. were it not cowardly,
and perhaps selfish, 1 could wish to leave the
united states, ai d become a resident in can
ada. lord morpeth said, when here, that
next tb the beautiful leap of the waters of the
niagara, was that made across the river, by
the fugitive from amencan bondage, to cana
dian freedom. i would respectfully commend
the manner of our reception here to the con
sideration ol that part of the press of the
united states, that allows no opportu
nity to escape, of pouring contempt .nd vul
gar abuse upon colored people and i would
ask them if the prejdßw which they claim
to be natural, be anything more than an uo
worthy and wicked hatred, springing legiti
mately from the existence of slavery in their
midst, and not from the hand of god how,
is it that ihe people within so short a distance j
from themselves, and of the same complexion
with themselves, should be enltrtfy free from
s feeiir.g almost universal in the united
slates’ fjet the americans explain this be* i
fore they claim that their feelings are either j
just or rational.
our party greatly enjov their visit to the
falls. we have had beautiful weather and j
have seen them under the most favorable cir
cumstances. to say that language is made-!
quite to describe them, is to utter what the
most gifted in words must feel on beholding'
this stupendous display ol beauty and gran-;
deur. i never fell more my want of power
to expresss the citations of my soul than*
while witnessing tnis magnificent scene. we
went vesterdav morning, soon after our arri
val, tirtt to see the whirlpool, which no one
visiting the falls should fail to see. the
great river here makes a short curve, and ihe
water, coming wnh great force, over huge,
rocks, against the curve, forms a mightv!
whirlpool—a sort ol repository for all the
flooc-wood that is drifted over the falls.
huge pieces of timber seem perfectly en-:
thralled by it. and perform an unceasing round
in its truubled waters —rising and sinking at
the will 01-the whirling waves. on looking
upon it i was impressed with the justness ol 1
the remark of lord byron, with reganl to the.
falls of velino—which, up to this time, lj
had thought strained and extravagant, fie:
addressed them a 3 the hell of wateis that
howl, and hiss, and boil in endless torture;
while the sweat of their great agonv, rung
out from this,
their phlegeihoit, curls round die rocks of jet,
that gird the gulf aroint], in pitiless horror set.”
it i 3 difficult to conceive a waterv abyss
more terrible.
m e viewed the great falls from various
points, on either side. from the balcony of
the clifton house, though a considerable dis
tance from the falls, we get the most com
prehensive view—being nearly opposite the
american falls, and fronting, at the same
time, the falls on the canada side.
ihe boldest and grandest point from which
to view the horse shoe fall, comprising ihe
vast rapids, is table rock. from this point
we see the embattled waters, with furious:
speed, rushing onward to their fearful leap*
into the howling abyss—which is made all
i mysterious by ever rising clouds of spray.
a beautiful view of the american fall is
obtained near the base of the railway leading
to the ferry. massive rocks, which seem to
have been whirled from the summit, form an
j excellent standing point, and enable the spec
tator to realize the immense depth of their de
scent. we spent most of the afternoon in
1 viewing the rapids on the american side, he-1
tween the main road and goat island. it is,
impossible that the eye can w*eary in looking i
upon these rapids; they possess a charm which
it is difficult to break. on leaving them we;
find ourselves turning, again and again, toj
j 'few and contemplate them. the bridge, ex- j
tending to goat island, is, perhaps, the best
1 point of view.
there is one great annoyance to which vis
itors here are subjected, and which greatly
detracts from the pleasure otherwise to be:
enjoyed. a literal swarm of guides besets
you every where. you have scarcely fixed
your eye upon a point of interest before you
are besieged by extravagant stories about
some other object, and importuned to leave it.
these persons live by fleecing travelers. our
advice is, pay no attention to guides. you
will easily find, for yourselves, the various
points of interest.
wishing to see and feel all that is to be
seen and felt, i have hut littie time, and must
now close, and he off on another excursion
f. d.
the impartial citizen.
a triertd has handed us a copy of this
remarkably uncandid shpet. it is edited by
kev. samuel r. w ard, and professes to be
an impartial sheet—in fact as well as profes-;
sion, but singularly belies its name, by pub
lishing uncandid and one-sided statements.—
in the number before us, we observe that the
rev. gentleman has come to the aid of his!
cousin, henry highland garnet, whose impu
dent letter to us we published at length in the!
north star two weeks since.
mr. ward has copied that letter entire, but
carefully excludes nearly every word of our
reply, and yet talks to the reader of comparing
the one with the other. ir not an impar
tial man 1 who will deny him his favorite
appellation after this 1 mr. ward persists in
his uncandid statement of our views on the
scheme of giving bibles to the slave, and in.
•ists that we are opposed to giving the slave
the bible, thus making our opposition to a
weak and ineffectual scheme opposition to the
bible. “to wilfully suppress the truth, is to
tell a he. ward knows, if he knows any
thing about our views, that his statement of
them is a gross perversion.
maine.—the message of governor liana
was rather roughly handled in the legislature
of maine, by his political friends, so tar as his
non-committal policy upon the question of
slavery in the terrttoiies was concerned. in
the senate, on friday, mr. hobbs of oxford,
from a committee to which the menage had
been referred, reported the following resolves'
in relation to the introduction and exten
sion of slavery in acquired territo
ries
resoled, that w e hereby declare for our
selves and in behalf of the people of this state.
o«ir uncompromising opposition to the exten
sion of slavery into any territory of the united
stales u hich is now free.
resolved, that in organizing governments
for new mexico and california, the introduc
tion and existence of slavery m those territo
ries should be positively prohibited by act of
congress.
resolved that our senators in congress
are hereby insuucted, and our representa
tives requested to vote against any acts estab
lishing governments for said territories, that i
do not contain an express prohibition of slav
ery.
resolved that the governor be requested
to forward copies of the foregoing resolutions
to each of our senators and representatives
in congress. »nd to each of the governors of
the severs! states of the union.
a large ponton of the loco-f«<co press of
maine takes the ground indicated by tbs reao
nttotts—s r y tribune.
m r. dklany’s post-office address will
htretftet be pittsburg, pa.
more ak««. -more mock repoblic*o
afmpotfcr.
sorer jj exchanges gire «bo ariuouneement
that preparations are being mad*? in new
orleans,and elsewhere throughout ibe stale*,
for a demonstration of sympathy in the simg-
gle the romans are now making for iheir to*l
dependence. <>n« paper baa the intelligencej
on this wise
“the glorious stand which the romans
nare made against the assaults of the french
and neapolitan *rmie». entitles them to the
sympathy as wi ll as the admiration of all
american? that sympathy, we hope will
tie extended to them in a tangible and appre-j
ciable form. we are glad to learn that it is
in contemplation to hold a meeting lor the
put pose of devising measures t«* supply the!
romans with arms, in which their troops are
very deficient.”
now, no reasonable poison could object to!
the citizens of new orleans or the citizens ofi
anywhere else, sympathising with the rom
ans, who. doubtless are deservme of sym
pathy-provided that the actions of the sym
pathisers did not prove their sympathy to be
the merest pretence, a mockery and a sham.
on what principle the slavetiolding american j
nation can admire and sympathise with the
efforts of any jieople to übtain their liberty,
except on the principle of admiring that from
which we are farthest removed, it is difficult
to imagine. do not these pretended friends
of liberty and admirers of roman intrepidity,
know that there is a large portion of their
own fellow-countrymen, numbering about
one-sixth of the entire population, whom they
might much more effectually assist to assert
their right to liberty, at their own doors do
they not know that there are about four mil
lions of persons m this country subject to an
amount of injury, insult and oppression, in
finitely more terrible than that which the
romans are endeavoring to shake off they
well know this. where is their sympathy
loi them, and how do they manifest it now
and then one of this oppressed class escapes
from his master—and he a sympathisers ith
the oppressed, an admirer of the glorious
stand made by’the romans” in t defence of their
rights, may be seen hurrying off in pursuit,
and hallooing on the dogs to chase and seize
the fugitive just think of it! what mock
eiy can be conceived of more apparent than
this the nation that is guilty of such in
consistency and wickedn .'s«, either directly or
by sufferance, is a nat! u of hypocrites.
there is no meanness more despicable—no
pretence more apparent —no sham more shal- j
low and superficial, than this of talking
sympathy for the oppressed abroad, while
there is not a word of sympathy expreased, i
or a hand of help raised for the doubly-op
pressed at home. the world will laugh to
scorn all such pretences. every one must
detect at a glance their gross inconsistency
and hypocrisy. there is only one thing in
nature to which this expression of american
sympathy bears a very striking resemblance
that is the supposition, if such a supposi- i
tion were possible—that a pack of hungry
wolves, howling over the bleeding carcase of,
a victim, should suddenly pretend to sympa
i thise very deeply with, and send offers of as
i sistance to another of the same species which
was being pursued, but had every prospect of;
j escaping from the impending danger. it is
a hard simile, but is it not like pity it is
that the resemblance is so perfect. the an-’
glo americans are the howling w’olves; the
negro-americans are the suffering victim.
the one class are torn, bleeding, biuised and
perishing, under the merciless fangs of the
other. there is no cruelty—no injustice—no
wrong, which the negro does not suffer at the
hands of his white oppressor. everv day
brings intelligence of some new' and unheard-’
of iniquity enacted upon this much-abused
race. shall this always be' is there no
mode of deliverance talk of constitutional
guaranties and rights’ what are they*
j v\ ho cares what they are, when set against
the inalienable right of every human being to
liberty and self-possession talk of the dan
ger ot emancipation what danger can be
greater than that ot crushing down, and de
priving ot their liberty, and dooming to ig
norance and degradation three—aye, four
millions ot our fellow-citizens such gross
1 violation ot every principle of morality can
not fail to bring down upon its perpetrators
some signal and terrible recompense. well
might thomas jefferson exclaim, in view
ot this nation's treatment of the down-trod
den negro—“ i tremble for my country, when
1 reflect that god is just, and that his ven
geance will not sleep for ever j. d.
difficulty at a town meeting—-negro
no negro.
a correspondent in cass co., mich., gives
an illustration of coloiphobta at a town meet
ing in mason, which shows, in rather a ludic
rous light, the proscriptive customs prevalent
in this country. it is this: in the town of
mason there is a settlement of blacks. not
seeing any particular show of justice or rea
son in the laws which exclude them from vo
ting, simply on account of color, they took it
into their heads, when an opportunity occur
red, to go and ofler their votes. they ex
pected to be repulsed; and so they were—all
but one. this one was so nearly white that
the wise fathers of the town believed him to
be a pure anglo-saxon,! and recorded his
vote. here, however, they got into a quan
dary, for it was bruited abroad that a nigger
had voted. but w ho w as the nigger there
happened to be a good many rather dark
complexioned individuals thereabouts, and
there was danger that some of the principal
men of the town might be found to be partial
ly afiican. at length the difficult) rested
between two —the one who was really of ne
gro origin and another who dawned to be
white. these two men were ushered with all
ceremony before the board, that they might
undergo a searching examination, and have
the very important question decided, which of
them was the tarr.al nigger” thst had pre
sumed to give his vote, w hen only white folks
are allowed that privilege. after having sub
jected the two men to a rather microscopic in
spection, the spokesman of the board arrived
at the very sagacious conclusion that the
while man was the rugger. “o,” said he,
i can see it in his eye.” what this solon
saw in the white nun's eye, that proved him
to be a nigger, our informant does not say
perhaps no one knew exactly. the science
of negro-ology is rather indigenous to the sot]
of these united states. whit* americana
seem to have u as a kind of instinct—just as
tbe crocodile, as soon as it is hatched in the
%a«d, finds its way, with all convenient speed,
into the water —having, as natural’s)- inform
as, an intuitive knowledge that its lather wilt
eat it if he catches it out. it might lie a c
rious, and perhaps profitable subject of in
quiry amongst students of natural history,
whether it is not something of this sort that
makes the u-hite american* dread the negro
he sees “it in his eye;” and this it.”
w hatever it may be, has the rather unpleasant
effect, for those who love to vote, of excluding
them from the ballot-box. more than this,
however .some white men seem lo have
it in thru eves; and the consequence is,
that it having some mysterious effect up
on the political artmn of the man who has
“it” iu his eye, rentiers his vote invalid.
this does not appear in the evidence on the
present case, but we are left to infer, that
if it is found m the man's eye, he cannot
be allowed to vote. 1 suppose that in cuiise
quence of the decision of the board of ma
son, the vole of the white man was rejected,
and that of the nigger” accepted. it,”
by some unaccountable freak ot' nature, did
not happen to hare got into that black man's
eye and the absence of it" necrssartly
made him an intelligent and legal voter in the
town of mason, cass co., michigan “oh
what a tangled web we weave.” when once
we depart fmm the direct and unvarying
principle of right tor all."—.i n.
the concord free press says that the
nothr star has not been seen there for the
space of six weeks. what the reason of this
is, i cannot determine. so far as i know, the
star has been sent regularly. the post
office must be in fault.—j. n.
our cleveland exchanges are looking up
they come to us this week in new t\ pe and
enlarged dimensions. their prosperii. is de
served. the true democrat look< neat,
and continues to be conducted with mm it abili
ty by its gentlemanly editor, john c. va gh an,
a southern man by birth, but, as his course!
would indicate, a sincere lover of tv-edom.
the plaindkalf.r would be neat, were it not
for the immense scarecrow heading, apparent
ly a representation of every thing in the uni- 1
verse and some things not in the universe,
with which it is ornamented." let the
heads of houses beware of this sheet, unless
they wish their families, on its weekly appa-
rition amongst them, to be trouble i with
dreams of spectres and hobgobblins. it is;
conducted with its accustomed spicencss and j
vigor, by its able and humorous editor. j. w.
gray. these two papers are rathei differ- 1
ent in character; but they will both, as the
reviewers have it, repay a perusal.”— j. n.
an advance in the church. —the free
synod of cincinnati, composed of those who
withdrew from the two synods of that city,
on account of their action on the subject of
slavery, lately held its annual meeting at
ripley, ohio. a series of resolutions relat
ing to the civil duties of christians, was
passed, which affirmed that no candidate lor
civil office, who is guilty of the crime of
slaveholding, should receive the suffrages of
christian voters. this synod refuses all
christian fellowship with those who hold
slaves.
appeal of the philadelphia associa
tion. —this appeal will be found in another
column. this association, as our readers
are aware, is composed entirely of colored
persons, and has for its oh|ect the sustenance
of the north star in the field of anti-sla
very warfare. the existence of such an
association has for us a peculiar interest
not so much because we receive pecuniaiy
assistance therefrom (though for that also we
are grateful) as because there are those
amongst the colored people, who manifest an
interest in our labors. they are the princi
pal sufferers by the ameiican slave-system
and its twin-brother, prejudice. them
take a firm and united stand against the com
mon enemy, and no power in the united
states or under heaven, can avail to keep
from them the possession of their long-lost
rights. the letter of observer is to the
point on this subject. we bespeak tor it a
careful and candid reading.— j. n.
the importation of slaves.— the peo
ple in shelby co., tenn., held a meeting
some days since, and passed strong resolu
tions against the farther introduction of slaves
into that state from kentucky. one of the
resolutions brings the subject to the notice of
the ensuing legislature, and urges upon that
body the passage of a law making it a penal
offence to introduce a slave into that state for
the purpose of selling him.
cincinnati, june 25—the interments du
ring the last twenty four hours, ending noon
to-day, reach one hundred and twenty, of
which eighty-four were deaths by cholera.
the interments for the 24 hours ending noon
sunday were 104, of which 78 were cholera.
baltimore, july 2.— the colonization
packet liberia arrived at this port yesterday,
in a run of 36 days from the west coast of af
rica. she brings a cargo of palm oil, ac.,
with 6 cahm pasengers and 5 in the steerage.
day of fasting. —the president has is
sued a proclamation, recornending the first fri
day in august to be observed as a day of tast
ing, humiliation and prayer, that the ruler of
nations may avert the ravages of the scourge
now threatening to sweep over the country
absconding slaves. —the romney (ya.j
intelligencer mentions the circumstance thai
on saturday night week, eight negro men
belonging to citizens of hampshire fv, ab
sconded, and although liberal rewards had
been offered for their apprehension, no tidings
had been received of their arrest. the lees
burg (loudoun) whig also stales that a
number of negroes (slaves) have absconded
from that county some of whom, on being
arrested in maryland, exhibited free papers
so well execoted as to lead to the belief, that
they had been systematically supplied, and
tbe road through maryland to pennsylvania
made plain to them.
insurkectjon in pernambuco. —accounts
have lately reached this country of an incur
rection among the slaves in brazil. accor
ding to later accounts, it was not an insurrec
tion of the slaves, bnt a conflict between cer
tain classes of the free eiuzeus. the proba
bility however, is, that slaves were mixed up
in the afiati. it is quite improbable that sla
very can long exist man empire, so heteroge
neous in its parts, and so liable every moment
to dangerous internal dissensions. a revolu
tion there would probably be associated with
tbe emancipation of all the slaves.
shall colored men vote. —the bill de
tecting the submission to the people of wis
consin, at the next general election, of the
question whether equal right of suffrage is to
be extended to colored person*, has passed
both houses of the legislature and is a jaw.
o liberty —e lewis, a free aegre, was
hoed s|t) in st. louts recently, for being in
lb* hut* without s been*#
'ppenl of the philadelphia association.
o'c morr.cn> association of philadel
phia, ippeal to a benevolent public, and to
*l'° fr f r,f *he slave everywhere, to ud
1 f *pprosching fair, the object cf
r l ,s> »b? north star.’ to
familiar u the pages of ih>«
p s a ac cessary to of us mem
i*ho have r.ot seen n we may wy
that we regard it a, one of lhe
slavery instrumentalities no w n the fold.
j m e are the more interested in it, because
the editor one .f our own oppressed race
and adm.rab’y qualified by h' s a jenu and
moral worth to p*tkmn wot, credit ibe
ous task of editing a paper devoted to„ u r he
vatmn. we believe and tru<u thxt o„ r f r<€nd
wilt give is tneir liberal aid
to >ur own people we look earnestly
hopefully. sisters, brothers, shall w* look
111 vain the iron has entered into your w*
ye go heavily, bowed down t 0 the very dust
dispirited, crushed, by ihe weight of opprea
sum. ye heat the taunts of the enemy, “they
arc so ignorant and unrefined 1 tb. y
jealous one ot another es, they umie but
it is only lo put down who 4s ltj oie urtei
lectuai than the hia<> prove by ttie urer
rins? language of conduct that these assertion*
so often thrown in <-ur faces are malicious
islanders. sustain t douglass, beeauae hi*
talents and correct j rmo.pl,demand your
j res f ,eci 3,1,1 confidence sustain him because
it is i‘ight t.) do mi, and because of the sweet
1 peace the performance of so worthy an action
will assuredly bring into v ur own bosom.
1 he fair will tie held on christmas week
donations tor it mav !h? sent to
hahrih i smi i’ll. 3|y lombard-street,
j dll li,u\ 1), 303 fine-street,
am\ m. casse\ 113 lioinbard-slreet
dr to any member ot the asstn'iabon
elizabeth appo. lydia ann blstill
mary barrott, hetty burr,
louisa bristol, helen johnson,
hester blstill, eliza jones,
charlotte mills.
sarah m. ix)i glass, cor. sec\.
no. .>4 mulberry-street
philadelphia, oth mo., >5, ih4‘l.
accident at niagara falls.— a gloom
was cast over this city yesterday morning, b>
the intelligence ol an accidental niagara fall*
the evening previous, resulting in the death
ot two persons from this city, under the most
afflicting circumstances. ibe particulars ot
this painful affair are contained in the following
telegraph despatch, received yesterday after
noon last evening at a quarter petore w
o'clock, while a party of ladies and gentle
men weie visiting the lima island, among
whom were the lady and little daughter ot
mr-delorest, and young t ‘has. adding
ton, and sewral others, and while the little
gul was standing on tin- veiv blink of the
r *ver, i!; i only some *2o it-, t i rout the falls,
and holding by ibe hand <d a young gentle
rum whose name j have not learned—
addington came up and said play
fully, 4 lam going to throw you in,” touch
ing her lightly on the shoulder—when she
sprang forward with a sufficient force to slip
trom lhe hand of the young gentleman who
held her.
she was instantly followed by addington,
who caught her,and in the effort was prostia
ted by lhe force of the water, throwing the
girl at the same time so near the shore that
the young gentleman who had her by the
hand nearly caught her, but lost his balance,
only saving himself by catching hold of some
brush on shore. in an instant, young ad
dington ami llielitle girl weresw. i nv. r b,
falls,
no human effort could avail them. a -ingle
moment threw them beyond llie ieach of all
mortal aid. oung addington was a young
man ol excellent character, of high and gen
ial impulses. lie was *te only son of th
bereaved family residin' in buffalo.
i hey are now here—their grief is intense
has ever cast such a gloom over
our village.— buff. com. adi.
1 ennessee has caught the spirit of email
cipation, it would seen. the knoxville tri<
bune is publishing a series of efficient arti
c!cs in its favor, in which a popular ton
vent ion on the subject called for.
low a. 1 here is not a single prisoner iii
the penitentiary at lowa. during the past
year, there have been one conviction, two
pardons, an i one escape, w nich leave* thr
prison empty.
i ommi’nion wine. --frederick a. page,
ol providence, lias been sentenced to n fine ot
i2o for selling a quantity of wine lor com
munion service, the court having decided that
such a i fu: i* neither “medicinal,” m i “ai
tisticai.'
i m locusts,— the pittsburgh post say*
that t ip fourteen vear locusts have made their
apjiearance in the neighborhood in great
sw arms. they can be gathered off the ground
in the gardens, by the handful!.
mit». edgeworth. —that charmer of the
fire-side, whose tales have delighted and in
structed more persons than those of anv an
thor she has left behind, is no more. she
died on monday, the 21st of may, at fdsre
worthtown, in the county of laingford, ire
land, aged 83.
murder by a slave. —lt becomes our
painful duty to record another of those rude
acts ot violence, lately of so frequent occur
rence m our district, and so shocking to the
fe«lings> of our people. mr. .michael long,
living in the north-eastern part of this district,
was found on tuesday morning the 17th mat
in his lied, horribly mangled by the discharge
of a gun—the upper part of h.s face and head
having seen shot away. from the evidence
before lia- coroner s inquest the foul murder
m s to hav<- been committed by a runaway
slave, the propertv of mr i/ang —edgefield
s. c. a dr.
a man named pierce has been arrested til
montgomery. via., on the charge of abducting
slave*
successful petition for freedom —of'
monday of last week, the circuit coutt at
washington commenced tbe trial of the case
of ynme and turner cryer n, elizabeth
lock a suit for freedom. the petitioner#
gave in evidence, that their mistress has lived
in v irginia for a period of fifteen years, dur
ing which period they havehved m this city,
and hired themselves, received their wages,
and a general absence of any act* of owner
ship on the part of their mitsress. on wednes
day, the jury found for the petitioners
brown vs. stone. this w as a case brought
for wages by a slave, who had escaped from
slavery, against hi* late master, who had
«sroe into upper canada on a visit, and had
been arrested for the eiaim, bur released os
finding bail. the case was tried last week,
at the hume district assizes, and resulted iu
a verdict for the defendant. sfontrtai
(iazettt.
more of slaverv’* fruits. ihs
charleston, s. c., papers stale that the
watchmen of west point mills was murdered
on the 9th inst. by two slaves
colored citizens of pittsburgh
a great change has taken place among
lhe p*mp’ic and things in this place within the
i»t year and a half—-oapecially among lh»
y a red inhabitants indeed the people anti
4 llv _. 3 pj)«»ar not to be the same. tb<
jreat change that atrikes the general observe
rh« moat forcibly is the moral aspect
things.
in the march of elevation among >m
o do ed people of pittsbutg, that tor wbtcv
the moat credit and commendation may be
g,> eu is their efforts to obtain real estate. it
ihia they are doing wc 11 and deserve mod
credit. never before m the history ot pitts
burg were the same efforts made to <<bi»tr
property as with... the last four or five yean
-more especially at this time, \oung men
who formerly traded upon the river an
lived at hotel., a few years ago, appearing tc
have no higher aim nor greater o l<** 1
mow than to make money tor a ason. qml
>vor k. dress up and strut about dangling go
chains and dandy staves, hoarding at con
siderable expense —gallanting ami treating
li( y iris' until their funds were exhausted,
u.ei. go to work again to quit alter a season,
h ,u the same scenes ot “gentlemanship
ilt d dandyism were acted over again, so
uopular among colored people was this course,
ihat it dare not be attacked, and denounced
iiv ihe person or reformer who had the hardt-
and possessed the courage to do we
m ero among those who in advance of the
jiopular spirit then existing, attacked these
as ,ouis, holding the conduct of our thought
less misguided youth up be fori their own
oaze. a torrent of opposition and even
persecution followed—but prepared rather
lo follow the line of duty and our own con
victions ol right than the “popular will,” we
continued our course until eventually, we
had the pleasure of having many who con
demeduslo approbate it. and even give us
among others thanks for the benefit they
derived from our precepts and admonition.-,
in them. at the present time, we do not
think there is anv community of people who
are making greater efforts at obtaining real
estate than those of pittsburg. scarcely is
there an industrious family but is making ihe
effort, more or less. in almost every direr
lion, in every new street—wherever property
or lots are put in market there will you find
same colored persons more or less to be
among the purchasers and holders—many ol
whom are tearing up neat and comfortable
dwe lings of moderate size some quite ele
gant houses for their means and capital in
deed, the greatest objection we find to the
buildings generally is, they are too good that
is. out people generally build houses mo
elegant, costly, and expensive t**r their
means, which they usually intend lor their
own residences, instead ot like the whites,
putting their ground to the best possible use
by first building several small tenements for
renting by which means they at once cream
for themselves an income.
several v oitfiy colo ed citizens have put
their properly to the iicst of uses and built
tenements which are now let out yielding
them a handsome percentage on their invest
ments. this is as h should fie, and we
would that more who have real estate would
make like improvement on increas
ing theit means by the improvement of their
property. a little industry and little enter
prise would accomplish this. among the
business enterprises there are several worthy
of note. there have been one shoe store and
one hat store established by two colored men
both practical mechanics, during the last
year, and in allleghany city an adjunct of
pittsburg, one good grocery store by mr.
harper, and a fancy store and mantua mak
,ng bv two colored ladies, besides other
srhaliei shops, all of whom appeal to be well
doing.
in alleghany city there is also an astocia
tion of colored men called ihe “moral .lever
association, -5 which has lor its object the
securing of .they are lasi ac
cumulating property and must eventually
hold a large amount. there is a public
school taught hereby miss matilda m. mure,
an amiable, talented and accomplished young
lady, which school is well attended with
young and small pupils.
kev. charles avery, a very wealthy gen
tleman ot alleghany city, one who has con
tributed largely towards benevolent object,
among the colored people ot tins county es
pecially the a. m. e. church, has presented
a lot lor the purpose and is now erecting the
necessary buildings tbr a high school for
ihe education of colored youths and maidens.
the act of incorporation passed the last
»t>aion ot the pennsylvania legislature re
cently adjourned and although this slate
merits the reputation of the most consum
mate meanness tor its prejudices, proscrip
tion, disfranchisement, and illiberality towards
the colored inhabitants, yet in this insiance,
the act of incorporating this tlie “alleghany
institute and mission church," they portray
ed that degree id generosity becoming an en
lightened and deliberative body. the insti
tute was empowered with all the privileges ol
a college, with the allowance of five thous
and dollars, when the usual immunities of
incorporate colleges are only two thousand.
thus for once has the legislature of penn
sylvania manifested a degree ot liberal leeling
towards the coloied inhabitants oi the state.
hus in a measure palliates the deep disgrace
that si ill hangs over her reputation—and
seemingly conceals the foul stain that still
tarnishes the pages ol her dockets.
mr. a very is erecting at hia own expense
tin? institute establishment for the education
of colored ysuth, though no distinction 16
made m regard to ihe origin of children,
attached to w hich mere is to be a commodi
ous chapel, known is the “mission church,”
in winch the colored wesleyun” connexion
is lo have the right of common worship. the
institute lias nine charter trustees—six
colored and three w hite—their successors to
continue torever in the *ju»e ratio this
we think a good and wise |,rovj bl on. h mce it
prevent, any advantage being taken of the
institute by the whites on account of num
bers. the iiicotporauou is unlimited in
period—hence, except by the most vicious
design, its existence may continue ml injin
dum mr. avery is a whig in polities, and
a member and preacher in the radical or
protestant methodist (while; connexion,
buthe is an anti-slavery man and true luefad
to the colored people, and far in advance of
hit political and religion* persuasion i*u
the same gentleman u previously referred
to, haa within the last two or three jean
contributed about thirteen hundred dollare in
cash to bethel cburoh in this city, which
church belongs to the colored people under
the african methodist episcopal church con
nexion, hhis liberality uj the colored people
has not been equalled—nay, not even imitated
nor mocked bv any man, however wealthy in
the western country —whatever may have
been bis anu-*lavery pretentions—whatever
to the contrary w e may think ot the incon
sistency of the rev. gentleman's political and
church position. in addition to these public
act* he is not without those isolated acts of
benevolence and charity which more par
ticularly mark the tiue philanthropist and
chnstian. he took a young colored woman
who was under the necessity ol living out at
“service” for a livelihood and sent her to
school at oberlin where he still supports her
and intends continuing to do so until she
completes her studies. he, in this last pub
lic act of establishing the institute, is erect
ing a monument to hisinemory that shall last
as long aa mind exist* in the being of ihe
colored people of alleghany county.
m. h. d.
three months in philadelphia daring
the winter of 1849.
siicond lsttk*.
fredirick douglas*— dear friend jn
iny letter of last week i took occasion to state
in outline, the proceedings and results of the
harrisburg!) and philadelphia conventions,
called for the purpose of securing the elective
franchise to the colored population ot that
state, and i spoke of them as sad failures and
attributable almost entirely to the indifference,
procrastination, and illiberally of the colored
people themselves; and i may be permuted to
repeat, that if there is one thing more than
another preventing our rise as a people, ob
structing the progress of our cause, and ma
king us a by-word and hissing in the land of
our nativity, and in the midst of those insti
tutions around which, cluster our hopes ior
the future, it is the spirit of envy, jealousy,
and deceit entertained and practiced towards
each other; this next to the inexorable preju
dices of our white oppressors, hangs like a
mill stone about our necks. take philadel-
phia the past winter for example, and on the
subject of the elective franchise, and in that
population of twenty thousand and upwards
there was no unanimity of feeling, and liber
ality of sentiment sufficient to fix upon any
man in their midst ijr from abroad, of their
own complexion, to act for them as agent or
lecturer; in fact, they held many meetings,
and much opposition and angry debate was
had before delegates to the state convention
were appointed, and the paltry amount raised
to pay their travelling expenses. and the
truth will sootier or later force itself upon us,
that tio great change in public sentiment can
be effected, or any long-lost right restored, or
general abuse corrected, or popular nuisance
removed, until the sufferers or disfranchised
signify their deep abhorrence of the injury
done them, their unmistakable opposition to
every form of oppression, founded upon color
or other adventitious circumstance; and that it,
is not enough that our white friends, w ho are
greatly in the minority, write, speak, petition
and contribute, but that it is ours also to j
write, speak, petition and contribute, and at
times and under circumstances best calculated
to keep up the agitation. let the quiet of the
church, the stability of ordinary societies
among us, the accumulation of dollars and
cents, the anniversaries of odd fellow socie
ties, the display of free masons, the levees j
of sons and daughters of temperance, the
suppers of good samaritans and fancy balls
and parties, be made subordinate lor the lime
being, to the great and true idea of our moral,
social, political and religious recognition.
to make me a sectarian, odd fellow, good
samaritan, son of temperance, or free
mason, before you make me a man and a cit
izen, is to mock my heart, and insult my
head liberty first, names, societies and con
ventionalism afterwards. ot what advantage
is the church, state or any human society or
institution to me, if i must purchase them at
the price of chains, slavery and proscription 7
wl it, the glory of houses and lands if enjoy
ed upon sufferance 7 suffer me to live on
south-street, and beat and stab me for walk
ing on the next street below, after 9 o clock
in the evening. tell me 1 may walk in an
odd fellow society, and mob me lor walk
ing in a temperance procession. permit me
to pass in a free mason procession, and club
and stone me to death for being in au anti-
slavery procession. go when, where and
with whom we please as servants or slaves—
but denied place above or beneath ground—
scarcely breathing air, or drinking water as
gentlemen. as musicians we may play in the
centre of fashionable circles, but must not
presume to walk or march ou grand parade
occasions; ride side by side with our white
employers or masters, carry the children in
our arms, kiss them and be kissed in retuin
as servants or slaves, but must not come with
in hailing distance as fiiends or equals. such
then is our true condition four millions of
people living, acting, dying, not as god wills,
but as slavery demands and prejudice com
plies; and who needs to be intoimed that any
appeal from us to the law, gospel, humanity
or civilization of the country, is a dead strain,
and will continue to be so, until we shall grow
more uneasy in our chains as slaves, and self
respectful, confident and daring in our demand
for our rights as nominal freemen. the true
secret is, we are slaves in our persons because
we are slaves m spirit; and shante ujioii the
craven cowards, and equal shame upon those
who willingly and patiently wait for their
white friends to do and dare tor them, what
they will not do and dare for themselves, and
long, too long this ha* been true of us. and
i ask if our fate is to he sealed through our
own inertion or whether as a people we are
doomed and damned by slavery's fiat 1 irft
him who dare* answer.
ouj colored friends throughout the country
know this is no fancy sketch, but every day
reality; they know that when oui friend ro
liert purvis says, we are but miserable auto
mata in community and in ihe country, he
speak* a truth. and when will we better
ourselves in a manner becoming our cause
in view of our present lifeless, listless at
titude to the cause emphatically our own, 1
agam confess my self-respect as a man is hunt
bled my pride i* s «u»n broken my
ambition u a son anti brother hi my
upi tat ions to a place among my fellow coun
trymen hare fallen my hope in thorn with
whom 1 am cla*sed. ami with whom i wish to;
lire and die is fast losing ita bold. and as
one of you, and with you i submit my ngbt!
to err out against the dorp damnation" ofj
slavery and prejudice upon ua, and mv equal 'j
right to enter my solemn ptotest against the
silence of our peopie, or any and every dem
oristraiion militating in any way against the
progress of our cause, and pro-slavery among
ourselves is equally obnoxious and detestable
to my mind and feelings as among white peo
ple; and let the line be drawn as discriminat
ing and impartial among ua, as one of the
means of saving us ftoni a common slavery
i and a common disgrace. and i here declare
that in future, i will show no more quarter or
lenity, 01 communion with the one than the
other. \ours, truly,
observer.
items from a spectator's journal.
during a recent visit to philadelphia, 1 was
much interested with the several .colored
schools, public aud private, as also various
institutions where indigent and children are
charitably provided w ith the means of mental,
moral and physical comfort. so much has
lately l»een transmitted through the north
star of the progress and resources of our
brethren in the city of brotherly love, that 1
teel justified in reserving the major pari of ray
own lucubrations as a spectator. i cannot
forbear however an allusion to the north
star association, a circle of devoted anti
slavery friends who manifest a readiness in
and out ol season to enlargethe circulation of
the paper regarded by them as an efficient
auxiliary in a good cause, and tht* too as 1
am happy to learn without lessening their
hearty good will arid patronage ot the other
prominent anti-slavery periodicals. a meet
ing was held under their auspices in \n eslev
church, which was addressed by robert
douglass, jr., among others, m an elegant
and pertinent manner, setting forth the claims
of the paper, and urging a generous support.
i trust the philadelphia north star associa
tion will be successful in their effort, and that
other cities will follow the example, thus cre
ating a wide spread impetus in its behalf. the
paper has successfully redeemed the pledges
given at the outset: the favorable testimony
of the press generally to the ability displayed
in its columns—the position it has already
won as a faithful exponent of the colored
american —the channel thiough which his
wants can be manifested —his incentives for
improvement encouraged—his faults rebuked,
&nd his virtues exalted, are among the rea
sons why the hand and heart of himself and his
friends should he zealous m its suppoit; its'
watchfulness of the schemes of out common
enemy, slavery, arid its twin ally the a met-,
ican colonization society its hold tones in
denouncing the former, and the skill in which
it implies the scalping knife of truth to the lat
ter, alike commend it to patronage. as a class
the colored people have not yet done their duty
in sustaining an anti-slavery press. a few
days since 1 heard an intelligent colored man;
rebuking another for not having subscribed
for the liberator, adding that as long as he
lived, the old pioneer sheet should be found on i
his table. did but a similar spirit animate
the nominally free colored people, their cause:
would progress with most rapid strides.
william p. powell, of new-york city,
with a determination of keeping up to the;
times, has recently removed his colored sail- j
or's home, to u3o pearl-street. a rnorefavor- i
able location could hardly be selected; ihe
house is peculiarly adapted to his plan,
can accommodate seventy persons. spacious
drawing and dinning rooms, and private ones
when desired by families. library facilities,
sleeping and bathing departments, are all ar
ranged in the most unique order: though
termed the seamen's home it is not exclu
sively such, and any who feel disposed to
award their patronage will in the language ol
mine host,” find every attention paid to
their comfort."
joseph holley, recently an anti-sla
very lecturer, though not now contributing as
often as formerly to your columns is yet help
ing tlie cause along at brooklyn, precept and
example. like roger sherman of revolution
ary fame, when not directly engaged in de-j
vising wavs and means for the people s on- j
largement, employs his time at his shoeinak
ing bench his customers are no less satisfi
ed with his work on account of a complexion!
unlike theit own. may lie, like the above
named patriot, be not a peg behind his con
teroparies in freedom’s cause.
a visit to the northampton water cure,:
and its enterprising proprietor david ruogles,;
is at all times and particularly the present,
very gratifying, the success thus far attending
his persevering efforts has warranted the
erection of an additional house, which is
now about finished and ready lor patients.
the water cure is pleasantly situated near
bensouville. on the west bank ot mill river,
about two miles from northampton centre
the scenery around the building is a feast to
the lover of the picturesque and romantic, and
invalids can enjoy their retired walls ad übitum.
the house is arranged with separate parlors,
bathin? 3nd dressing rooms for ladies and
gentlemen, and the water applied for baths is
unrivalled for its peculiar propeities— the sick
have only to accept the invitation, come
wash and be healed." david ruggles is not
merely a cold water theorist, but fortunately
for him and the long list of las cured patients
has been practical —himself restored to health
and usefulness by the cure, is enabled more
confidently to commend the system to others
than if he had acquired his gift only from
books and observation his skill in detecting
disease by sense of touch (and which is en
hanced rather than impaired by his partial
lack of vision) would be deemed miraculous
were it not in accordance with the scientific
demonstration* of several eminent medical
scholars. i*et then, those afflicted with any
of the ills dealt is heir to,” haste to obtain
ablution at this justly famed fountain ol
health.
within a few- years past, boston has re
ceived quite an accession of colored citizens,
a large majority hailing from the southern
state*, and 00 antong the moat
industrious classes, many quietly pursuing
i the even tenor of their way, securing the
means of comfort sod elevation. there never
was a greater libel uttered tban charging the
colored people with brine**, indolent one*
of course there »r« wbwe p rww* and evil
influer «s arc a eootmaai eje-wn to the bet
ter port** sot the masses whether clunung
a northern or southern oiiiib u far as cit
cutmtauces allow, honorably emulate the
examples of enterprising white men. of this
there are abundant facts w confirmation.
b«?=tyn and new bedford, hare each con
tributed ibeir quota of colored adventurers in
i lie california gold hunting expedition, many
of them have sacrificed long established busi
ness and lair piospects, investing much capi
ta' jrit'. the hope of realising a fortune. as
with the whites a» with them, their u»»s«oo 1
is condemned bv some and approved by otheis.
in business relations a colored man may now
succeed if perseverance and patience be
among his virtues. daniel laing is a co
proprietor of a power printing press, has
now a fair share of patronage, as have also
several journeymen compositors —more tacts
of this kind could be mentioned. olorphobia
does not now seem as rampant as in days
gone by. thete are but few if any omnibuses
from which a colored passenger is colonized.
in fating saloons ami sods refectories they
are generally t.eated as others, and in places
of popular amusement, where the “upper ten
mostlv do congregate, colored persons find
readv access to seats of their choice—and as
an encouraging fact it may be mentioned, that
in several instance*'this equality is practised
w here a few years since the very shadowing
forth of such an advance would have given
altogether too much color to the idea.
wm. w. brown, who soon leaves for
europe, is an accredited delegate to the peace
convention about to assemble in paris and to
be presided over by lamartine. how would
american republicans here at home recipro
cate, if a colored delegate was sent from
paris we cannot answer —perhaps with
fraternity and equality. william allen
former editor of the troy national w atch
nian, is now lecturing in this vicinity on the
history, literature, and destiny of the colored
race, and with gratifying acceptance. one
individual who had never lieen known to ex
press any favorable feeling for the colored
man and his cause, on leaving the lecture
room the othet evening eontessed that the
impression made on him by the subject as
presented had given him new and exalted
opinions of the class hitherto deemed so infe
rior.—thus a chord had been struck in bis
breast never before vibtaiing to such senti
ments. on saturday evening june 2d, by
invitation of \n illiam j. bowditch esq., a
large delegation of colored school children
partook of picnic festivities in his beautiful
grove at brookline about five miles from the
city. the weather during the week had
been extremely unpropitous, but on this day
as if bv benevolent design, a bland atiuos
phete, and cloudless sky greeted the merry
hearted children, their friends and benefactors;
a variety of innoqent recreations were indulg
ed in, and not only by the juveniles, but by
those of a larger growth, ami that 100 most
heartily. several distinguished friends ol the
anti-slavery cause were present, who consis
tently appreciated such art opportunity. on
separating, rounds of happy cheers were given
in grateful testimony to the proprietor and his
lady, both of whom always appear most
pleased when contributing to the happiness
of others. w. c. n.
boston, june 1849.
the protective policy ok an armed
peace. —something far the merchant. the
armed-protection policy is a strange species of
economoy, truly. nothing like it. can be
found in the history of common business
transactions. there is only one thing like it
which we can imagine; and that would be the
case of a person who should set one ol his
children bringing water for the family in a
gourd from a neighboring spring, and should
keep an athletic hired man, armed with a
bludgeon, merely for the purpose of attending
the child on the way, to protect it from dogs,
donkeys, pigs, and geese. such a protective
policy would be about as economical as that
adopted by enlightened nations fur the protec
tion of commerce. the great object of na
vies is to protect commerce it is said; and the
merchants aud manufacturers of chistendom
believe it to a marvellous extent of credulity.
to be sure, in the still times of peace, navies
do but little in this way. they sometimes
sleep dismasted in hulks for years, in the best
harbors of nation, or upon their stocks under
cosily building. commerce is expected to
take care of itself during a time of peace; but
in war these great sea bull-dogs are unken
neled to protect commerce by chasing halt of
it fr m the ocean! but let us count the cost
of this kind of protection, beginning with great
britain. _
the sum appropiated to the british navy
for the last year, amounted to at least x 8,000
000, after deducting xt ,000,000 for packet
service. the entire value of (all the exports
of the united kingdom, in 1848, did not
probably exceed x’4,000,000. thus the na
val protection ot this commerce cost nearly
seventeen percent- of its whole amount! now
it is doubtful w hether any experienced man
utaciurer or merchant in england would put
j the net profits on these exports at above 12 1-2
t percent, after deducting all risks, insurance
guaranties, and other inseparable charges.
then this singular economy would produce
this result: _
profits of x’48,000,000 x 0,000,000
naval protection of ditto. x 8.000,000

excess ut protection over profits, x 2,000,000
required the number of years it would
take for commerce to get nch at this rate.
but, 1848 was a hard year for commerce it
will be said. then let us take the annual
average exports ol the 1 nited kingdom for
the last five yeats, and we shall find that they
paid 15 per cent, of their entire amount for
naval protection the commerce of france taxed lo percent and that of the united states 7 cent, for
the same kind of protection. how can the
enlightened merchant* and manufacturers of
these three great countries be reconciled to
such a protective policy a« thud— chrutian
1 citizen.
the bevas« —juneo —pm the
n great creva»e now in a fair way of being
,j checked. the levee above he
r citv has been abandoned, the cost for the
construction of the same being too great.
i am not going to inflict on the rea
der a detailed account of this remark
able trial, which turned, as barristers
would say, on a beautiful point of cir
cumstantial evidence. along with the
attorney, a sharp enough person in his
wav, 1 examined various parties at the
hotel,and made myself acquainted with
the nature of the premise?. the more
wo investigated, however, the more
dark and mysterious—always supposing
harvey's ineocence—did the whole
case appeal. there was not one re
deeming trait in the affair, except har
vey’s previous good character: and
good character, by the law of kngland,
goes for nothing in opposition to facts
proved to the satisfaction of a jury. it
was likewise most unfortunate that a—
was to be the presiding judge. this
man possessed great forensic acquire
ments, and was of spotless private char
acter; but like the majority of lawyers?
of that day—when it was no extraordi
nary thing to hang twenty men in a
morning at newgate—lie was a staunch
stickler for the gallows as the only ef
fectual reformer and safe-guard of the
social state. at this time he was but
partially recovered from a long and
severe indisposition, and the traces of
recent suffering were distinctly appar
ent on his pale and passionless fea
tures.
harvey was arrainged in due form,
the evidence was gone carefully
through; *&nd everything, so far as 1;
was concyrned, was done, that man
could do. l|ut at the time to which i
refer, counse) was not allowed to ad
dress the coulrt on behalf of the prison
er—a practice since introduced from
scotland—and consequently i was al
lowed no opportunity to draw the atten
tion of the jury to the total want of any
direct evidence of the prisoner’s guilt.
harvey himself tried to point out the
unlikelihood of his being guilty; but he
was not a man gifted with dialectic
qualities, and his harranguc fell point
less on the understandings of the twelve
common-place individuals who sat in
the jury-box. the judge finally pro
ceeded to sum up the evidence, and this
lie did emphatically against the prisoner
—dwelling with much force on the
suspicious circumstance of a needy
man taking up his abode at an expen
sive fashionable hotel; his furtive des
cent from his apartments by the backi
stairs; the undoubted fact of the watch
being found in his trunk; the improba
bility of any one putting it there but,
himself; and the extreme likelihood
that the robbery was effected in a few
moments of time by the culprit, just as
he passed from the bar of the hotel to
the room which he imd occupied. “if,”
said he to the jury, in concluding his
add ress, “you can, after all the cir
cumstances, believe the prisoner to be
innocent ofthe crime laid to his charge,
it is more than i can do. the thing 1
seems to me as clear as the sun at noon
day. the evidence, in short is irresis
tible; nnd if the just and necessary
provisions ofthe law are-
in such very plain cases, i.. ..^y
will be dissolved, and security for
property there will be none. gentle
men, retire and make up your ver
dict.”
the jury were not disposed to retire.
after communing a few minutes togeth-
er, one of them stood up and delivered
the verdict; it was— guilty! the judge
assumed the crowning imdge of the ju
dicial potentate—the black cap; and
the clerk ofnrraigns asked the prisoner
ut the bar, in the usual form, if he had
anything 10 urge why sentence of
death should not be passed upon him.
poor harvey! i durst scarcely look
at him. as the sonorous words fell on
his ear im was grasping nervously with
shaking hands at the front of the dock.
he appeared stunned, bewildered, as a
man hut half awakened from a hideous
dream might be supposed to look. he
had comprehended, though he had
scarcely heard, the verdict; for on the
instant, the voice which hut a few years
before sang to him by the brook side,,
was ringing through his brain, and he i
could recognize the little pattering feet
of his children, us, sobbing unci cling
ing to their shrieking mother’s dress,
she nnd they were hurried out of court.
the clerk, after a painful pause, re
peated the solemn formula. by a strong
effort the doomed man mastered his
agitation; ins pale countenance lighted
up with indignant fire, and firm and
self-possessed, lie thus replied to the
fearful interrogatory:
“much could i say in the name, not
ol mercy, but of justice, why the sen
tence about to be passed on me should
not be pronounced; but nothing, alas!
that will avail me with you, pride-blind-1
ed ministers of death. you fashion to'
yourselves—out of your own vain con-!
ceits do you fashion—inodes and instru
ments, by the aid of which you fondly
imagine to invest yourselves with at
tributes which belong only to omnisci
ence; and now i warn you—and it is a
voice from the tomb, in whose shadow i
i already stand, w hich addresses you—|
that you arc about to commit a most
cruel and deliberate murder.”
he paused, and the jury looked into
each other's eyes fur the courage they
could not find in their own hearts. the;
voice of conscience spoke, but was on
ly for a few moments audible. the sug
gestion that what grave parliaments. l
learned judges and ail classes of “res
pectability” sanctioned, could not be;
wrong, much less murderous or cruel,
silenced the “still small” tones, and
tranquilised the startled jurors.
‘‘prisoner at the bar,” said the
judge with his cold, calm voice of des
tiny. cannot listen to such observa
tions: y oil have been found guilty of a
heinous offence by a jury of your coun-j
trymen alter a pat.ent trial. with that!
finding 1 nevd scarce say i entirely
agree. la® assumed of your guilt
as ifl had seen you commit the act with
my own bodily eyes. the circumstance
of your being a person who, from habits j
and education, should have besn above
committing to base a crime only aggra
vates your guilt. however, no matter
who or whal vou have been, you must;
expiate your offence on the scaffold.
1 he law has very properly for the safe-j
ty ot society, decreed the punishment
of death fot such crimes: our only and
plain duty is to execute that law
the prisoner did not reply; he was
leaning with his elbows on the front of j
the dock, his bowed face covered with
his outspread hands; and the judge
passed sentence of death in the accus
tomed form. the court then rose, and
a turnkey placed his hand upon the
prisoner’s arm. to lead him away. sud
j denly he uncovered his face, drew him
self up to his full height—he was a re
markably tall man —and glared fierce
i ly round upon the audience like a wild
i animal at bay. “my lord,” he cried,
or rather shouted, in an excited voice.
the judge motioned impatiently to the
jailor, and strong hands impelled the
j prisoner from the front of the dock.
bursting from them, he again sprang
forward, and his arms outstretched,
whilst his glittering eye seemed to hold
the judge spell-hound, exclaimed, “my
lord, before another month has passed
away, you wilj appear at the bar of an
other world, to answer for the life,
the innocent life, which god bestowed
upon me, but which you have impiously
cast away as a thing of naught and
scorn!” he ceased, and was at once
borne off the court, in some confu
sion, hastily departed. it was thought
at the time that the judge’s evidently
failing health had suggested the
prophecy of the prisoner. it only ex
cited a tew days’ wonder and was for
gotten.
ihe position of a barrister in such
cicuinslances is always painful. i need
hardly say that my own feelings were
of a very distressing kind. conscious
that it the unfortunate man really was
guilty, he was at least not deserving
capital punishment, i exerted myself to
procure a reprieve. in the first place
i waited privately on the judge; but he
would listen to no proposal lor a res
pite. along w ith a number of individ
uals—chiefly of the society of friends
—i petitioned the crown for a commu
tation of the sentence. but being un
accompanied with a recommendation
from the judge, the prayer of out* peti
tion was of course disregarded: the
law. it was said, must take its course.
how much cruelty has been exercised
under shelter of that remorseless ex
pression
i would willingly pass over the suc
ceeding events. unable to save his
life, i endeavored to soothe the few re
maining hours of the doomed convict,
and frequently visited him in the con
demned cel). the more i saw of him,
the deeper, grew my sympathy in his
case, w hich was that of no vulgar felon.
“1 have been a most unfortunate man,
said he one day to me, a destiny
towards ruin in fortune and in life has
pursued me. 1 feel as if deserted bv
god and man; yet i know or at least
would persuade myself, that heaven
will one day vindicate my innocence of
this foul charge. to think of being
hanged like a dog for a crime at which
my soul revolts! great is the crime of
those imbecile jurors and that false and
hard-hearted judge, who thus, by an
irreversabie decree, consign a fellow
mjrtal, to a death of violence and dis
grace. oh god, help me—help me to
sustain that bitter, bitter hour!” and
then the poor man would throw him
self on his bed and weep.
but the parting with his wife and
children—what pen can describe that
terrible interview?—they knelt in
prayer, their wo-begone countenances
suffused in tears, and with hands
clasped convulsively together. the
scene w as too harrowing and sacred for
the eye of a stranger. i rushed from
the cell, and buried myself in my lodg
ings, whence i did not remove till all
was over. next day james harvey, a
victim of circumstantial evidence, and
of a barbarous criminal code, perished
on the scaffold.
three weeks afterwards, the court
arrived at u populous city in the west oi
england. it had in the interval visited
another assize town, and there judge
a— had left three for execution. at
the trials of these men, however, j had
not attended. so shocked had been
my feelings with the mournful event
which had taken place at that i
had gone into wales for the sake n)
change of scene. after roaming about
for a fortnight amidst the wild solitudes
ot caernarvonshire i took the stage foi
the city which i knew the court was to
visit, and arrived on the day previous
to the opening of the assizes.
“well, are we to have a heavy
calendar:” i inquired next morning oi
a brother barrister on entering the
court.
“rather light for a march assizes,’
replied the impatient counsel as he
hustled onward. “there’s cartwright’*
case—highway robbery—in which 1
am for the prosecution. he’ll swine
for it, and peihaps four or fivt
others.
*’a good hanging judge is a—
said the under sherff, who at this mo
ment joined us, rubbing his hands, at
if pleased with the prospect of a few ex
ecutions. “no chance of the prophec)
yonder coming to pass, i suppose?”
“not in the least, replied the bust
ling counsel. “he never looked better
his illness has gone completely off
and this day’s work will brighten hirr
up.”
cartwright’s trial came on. i hac
never seen the inan oefore, and wai
not uware that this was the same persor
whom harvey had incidentally told me
he had discharged for thett; the truth
being, that till the last moment of bit
existence, (hat unfortunate man, hat
not known how much he had beer
a sacrifice to this wretch’s malice.
ihe crime of w hich the villain now
stood accused was that of robbing a
farmer ol the paltry sum of eight shih
lings, m the neighborhood of ilfra
combe. he pled not guilty, but put in
no defence. a verdict was recordec
against him, and in due form, a— sen
tenced him to be hanged. an expres
sion ot fiendish malignancy gleamec
over the haggard features of the fclof
as he asked leave to address a few
words to the court. it was granted
leaning forward, and raising his heav)
scowling eyes to the judge, he thus be
gan: “there is something on m)
uuno, my lord—a dreadful crime—
which, as i am to die for the eight ahih
u hf i took from the farmer, i mar at
well confess \ou may remembei
harvey, my lord, wh«m you had hang
ied the other dav at-
“what of him fellow replied tba
i judge, his features suddenly flushing
crimson.
ij “why, my lord, only this—that he
i was as iunocent of the crime for which
i you hanged him as the child yet un
bom! i did the deed! i put the wutch
in his trunk!” and to the unutterable
i horror of the entire court he related the
whole particulars of the transaction, the
origin of his grudge against harvey,
and his delight on bringing him to the
gallows.
“inhuman, execrable villain!”
j gasped the judge in extreme excite
ment.
“cleverly done though! was it not,
rny lord?” rejoined the ruffian with
bitter irony. “the evidence, you
i know, was irresistible; the crime as
(clear as the sun at noonday; and if, in
such plain cases, the jnst and necessary
j law was not enforced, society would be
dissolved, and there would he no se
curity for propeity! these were your
j words, i think. how on that occasion,
i admired your lordslup’sjudgment and
eloquence! society would be dissolved
if an innocent inun w ere not hanged !jha!
—ha!—ha! capital!—capitnl!” shout
ed the ferocious felon with demoniac
glee, as he marked the effect of his
words on the countenance of the
judge.
“remove the prisoner!” cried the
.sheriff. an officer was about to do 30;
1 hut the judge motioned him to desist.
his lordship's features worked convul
sively. he seemed striving to speak,
but the words would not corne.
“i suppose, my lord,” continued
cartwright in low and hissing tones, as
the shadow of unutterable despair
grew and settled on his face— “i sup
pose yon know that his wife destroyed i
herself. the coroner’s jury said she;
had fallen accidentally into the water, j
i know better. she drowned herself
under the agonies of a broken heart! i
saw her corpse, with the dead baby in
its arms; and then i felt that i was
lost! lost, doomed to everlasting per
dition! but, my lord”—and here the i
wretch broke into a howl wild and ter- i
rific—“we shall go down together—
down to where your deserts are known.
a—h—h! that pinches you, does it?—
hound of a judge! legal murderer!,
coward! i spurn and spit upon thee?”i
i the rest of the appalling objurgation
was inarticulate, as the monster foam
ing and sputtering, was dragged by an
officer from the dock.
judge a— had fallen forwards on
his face, fainting and speechless with
the violence of his emotions. the i
black cap had dropped from his brow.
his hands were stretched out across*
the bench, and various members of the
bar rushed to his assistance. the
court broke up in frightful commo
tion.
two days afterwards the country
paper had the following announce-!
ment;
“died at the royal hotel. on
the 27th instant, judge a—, from an
access of fever supervening upon a 1
disorder from which he had imperfectly j,
recovered.” h
the prophecy was fulfilled!
bathing. —‘citizens of manufactur
ing towns, who dwell in an atmosphere
of copperas and cotten-furz, and coal
smoke and unsavory zephyrs from
‘raging canal,’ ought to bath often. in
stead of this, half of them encase them
selves in ‘greasy flannel, from janu
ary to june and june to january, and
dodge the water as if they had the hy
drophobia. the other half take a duck
about once a year, and then run home
os ii frightened by their own cleanliness.
hence we hear of dyspepsia, colds,
fevers and the like, in spite i,f the tons
ot ‘intalliable remedies’ which are an
nually swallowed, at great expense of
grimaces and cash.’
the benefits of heresy.— the
providence journal says: “we are
fond of heresy. a strong man breaking
away from an old creed, is as a clap of
thunder in the dog days. he purifies
the air.’’