to many, the recurrence of the
season which celebrates the declara
tion and commencement ol our natiou
u\ independence, usually brings merely
an occasion of idle and boyisli amuse
ment. it commonly-"comes, and it
departs without suggesting one kind
ling thought, wirhont awakening any
deep emotion. it is simply a day of
relaxation and festivity. but now when
we are so rapidly approaching some
great crisis in human ullairs, when
every child among us must be stiuc k
with the contrast between the large
measure ol security existing in this
country and the alarm which over
shadows the nations ol kurope; now,
when older communities are struggling
in the lire snd smoke of revolutions,
there is a significance —an emphasis
in our great national anniversary,
which must stir and kindle our deepest
thouchts. at least, we cannot fail to
congratulate ourselves tlrut we are
here. of some sentiment almost akin
to devout religious thankfulness, we
must become involuntarily conscious,
ns] the tidings reach us of burning
cities, and streets running with blood,
and a great horror ailing upon nations,
while over our homes, peace and
prosperity are emptying the full horn
of their blessings.
but, my friends, it is not only or
chiefly on account of the abundance of
our personal blessings, or for the sake
of our national prosperity that our
great anniversary is to be welcomed
with grateful thoughts and remem
brances. it betokens a low and seltisli
mind to exult only in what we our
selves possess. flic glory of our dec
laration of independence is not that it
broke the yoke of foreign oppression,
and introduced the state of tilings in*
which we now share. its value is toj
be estimated not by any definite results,
by which it lias been followed, but by
the principle which it asserted. here;
is the glory of that declaration—for
this should the whole nation doit hom
age —this should awaken our gratitude,
our reverence, our loyalty—this, name
ly, that, as at the first, so upon every
return of the birth day of our nation,
the principle of the equality, the broth
erhood of ull mankind is most distinct
ly and solemnly declared.
when we consider it thus, as it cer
tainly is, as a declaration ol the inde
pendence not of one nation, but oi all
nations, as the charter of universal hu
manity who is not impressed with its
greatness and its power! notwith
standing some facts to the contrary, it
has not been and it will not he a dead
letter. it sustained thirteen humble
collides m their bloody struggle with
the mighty empire which sought to hold
them iu subjugation to its power. it
breathed the breath of life over this
western wilderness. it wrought like a
word of magic upon one of the fore
most nations ol' durope, and as the
infant cp of freedom was wafted over
the atlantic, france burst asunder the
chains of despotism and madlv strove
to clutch the bright vision of liberty,
and then tumbled headlong under the
chariot wheels of military power. the
influence of our example, the power ol
the truth here declared, spread over
the southern continent ol this hemis
pbce‘, and the tie which hound it m
political bondage to the old world wan
broken. the declaration and estab
lishment of our national liberties, like
|he pillar of lire and awoke which led
the north star
israel from egyptian slavery, has con
ducted a vast procession of the oppres
sed from the old world to the new, and
still they come, an ever increasing host
to conquer and adorn the w ilderness of
the west, under the guidance of bet
ter institutions. and now', the specta
cle of this great and thriving multitude,
living here under the formal recogni
tion of human rights, acknowledging
no privileged classes of kings and no
bles, —does it not unite with the sense
of oppression and wrong which is
stinging to madness the names of eu
rope, to inflame their noblest aspiration
and nerve them to the contest with their
oppressors? the form of government
here established, and upon the princi
ple of human equality is now the great
european idol. p it ah! not in a day
can the institution.) of freedom es
tablished. if they have gained any
strength here, it is because the people
of this land, from its very first settle
ment were trained and prepared for
them. our fathers came to the world
and emancipated from all the oppres
sive influences of feudal europe, here
in a condition, in which no artificial dis
tinctions of rank, but only personal
energy, was of any avail, they grew
up naturally to the stature of freedom;
and our simple forms of government
sprung from the character and condi
tion of the people. hut now in europe
the general mind is perverted and turn
ed away by the unequal forms of socie
ty under which, and by which it has
been fashioned; and the masses do not
know what that liberty is for which they
are contending. it will yet he a long
time, we fear, before the ancient mon
archies of christendom can be trans
formed into free republics. still dis
tant as that change may be, europe
will never settle back again on the old
foundations of arbitarry power. there
is a light shining upon her from across
the ocean, which, so long as it con
tinues to shine, will hinder the sleep of
despotism. our declaration of inde
pendence, though as yet but partially
carried out, is nevertheless the hand
writing on the wall, which disturbs the
repose of monarchs, and portends the
doom of the oppressor. \vhat will be
its effect; how will it glare, with a
b finding splendor, when the foul wrong
of domestic slavery shall be abolished
j on this soil, and we shall give the lov
ers of despotic power no occasion to
1 mock at our professions of freedom?
when we turn from considering the
influence of our declaration of human]
rights upon foreign nations and look ati
home,’ here too we behold most animat
ing tokens of its pow'er. it is true,
when this declaration was made, broad
and emphatic as it is, many of those,
who were its most ardent advocates,
and who pledged life, fortune and honor
in its defence, were at the .same time
flatly denying its fundamental truth in
practice. they were holding men not;
as their equals hut as their slaves; and
blinded by custom and interest, they!
seemed to be utterly insensible to the 1
great truth which they declared. near
ly three quarters of a century have,
passed away, since the great declara-,
tion was made, and until within the last
few years, the anniversary of it was
celebrated year after year through the
whole length and breadth of the land,
and the conscience of the people seem
ed to be cast into a deep sleep. the
author of the declaration of indepen-'
dence did, indeed, in his day, confess
that he trembled for his country when
he thought of the justice of heaven.
hut still, as i have said, throughout
the whole land, there was an utter
unconsciousness of the lact that there
were thousands and hundreds of thous
ands of dwellers on this soil to whom
our boasted freedom was an unmitigat
ed and most bitter despotism. and on
our national birthday it was asserted
over and over again that this country
was the home of freedom —that all its
children were equal in the eye of our
free institutions; that here was the
refuge of the oppressed; and this while
throughout that portion of the country
which controlled the councils of the
government, men, women and child
ren w’ere bought and sold, treated like
chattels and not like human beings.
the very existence of as many slaves
on our soil, as there were people in the
land when our independence was de
clared, w as utterly ignored, and lor only
one reason that can be imagined, be
cause they were of a different com
plexion. thus nearly a century of our
national history passed, and excepting
an occasional lamentation uttered here
and there, over the existence of this
deep blot upon our freedom, the gene
ral sense of the country was dull and
dead. hut then, at lust, a solitary
voice was raised calling public atten
tion to the fact of american slavery,
denouncing it as a direct violation of
our great national charter, and as
direct a violation of the law of god,
and insisting that we must cease from
doing this great wrong instantly and
on the fcpot. 1 hat voice was met bv a
storm of public denunciation; still it
was heard above the storm. the lone
ly assertor of the fundamental princi
ple of the declaration of independence
and of the law of the christ and of
(iod, soon drew others around him,
and mighty in the strength of freedom,
in the spirit of a noble christian pat
riotism, they demanded simply a faith
ful application of our own professed
principles. and though they used nc
weapon save such as reason and con
science furnished, though they shed nc
blood but their own, yet their wort
has gone forth with power, and tu<
truth of our ualtonal declaration ha:
been re-u-serted with a broader am
more glorious meaning. altbougl
mobs have gathered, and there hav<
been burnings and bloodshed, yet tin
cause of human freedom has gone tri
right is of no sex—truth is of no color— god is the father of i s all, and all \vf. are brethren.
umphantly onward. from one end ol
the country to the other it has been
made the absorbing topic of thought
and conversation. it has penetrated
into the heart of powerful ecclesiasti
cal organizations, and broken them in
twain. it has entered the halls of out
state legislatures and made persona!
liberty a controlling principle of theii
action. it has withstood every effort
to keep it out of our national coanciis.
it has engrossed the attention and time
ol congress, pushing all other busi
ness aside. it has commanded the
services of the wisest and most eminent
of our countrymen —of adams and ol
channing. it has forced politicians
carefully to trim their sails. in fine,
it is everywhere assuming in the pub
lic mind that importance which right
fully belongs to it, and now it is felt to
be the one great question of the count
ry and the age. it is true, the most
desperate exertions have been made to
suppress it, but we may estimate its
power and its success by the very ex
travagance of the measures to which
its opponents have been driven. they
have denied the right of private judg
ment and the freedom of speech. they
have disowned the right of petition.
they have violated the sanctity of the
post office. they have entrapped
the nation into a bloody war, avowedly
for the security of the slave power.
they have contradicted the principle
of human equality. they have im
prisoned iree men, and made it peril
ous for a free man to enter a state
where slavery exists. they have
claimed a right to violate the first prin
ciple of our declaration of indepen
dence, and to carry slavery where it
never existed before.
but all these things only show how
mighty is the truth which drives its
enemies into such folly and madness.
notwithstanding all this resistance, or
rather in consequence of this resis
tance, the free spirit of the north is
steadily awaking into life and activity.
it is slowly and steadily becoming a
commanding element in the public
opinion of the north. and in view ol
all these cheering tokens of the pro
gress of the anti-slavery sentiment, i
verily believe before (jiod, that there
arc some sitting here (ids day who
shall live to see the kingdom of liberty
come. it cannot be, hardened as our
hearts have been against our brother
man and sister woman, crushed to the
earth and kept there by our institu
tions; it cannot be, that when all eu
rope tain arms, clamoring for the rights
of our common nature; it cannot be,
that, when evert barbarian powers are
knocking off the chains of the slave; it
cannot be,‘that when all the world is
awaking up to the simple claims of
equal justice, we, claiming as v 4 <kj to
be the special advocates of freedom,
shall continue to strengthen the arrn of
the oppressor. we cannot much long'®
er hide from ourselves the fact, that
the very first principles of our religion
are involved, and that as believers in
christianity, as those who glory in the
declaration of independence, nay, as
men, endowed w ith the common sympa
thies of humanity, we can have no
plainer duty than to aid in all ways
possible in the emancipation ol the en
slaved. i pray you, brethren, as you
would render to the old world the great
est service that you can render it, as
you would help the cause ol oppressed
nations, hold back no longer from th®
cause of humanity at home. let nev
er a word again'pass your lips in justi
fication of holding men as property
honor the declaration of human rights,
by recognizing those rights in the
person of the humblest ol your breth
ren. celebrate the return ol this,
season, bv consecrating yourselves to
the help of the slave, to the held ol the
weak against the mighty. let there
be no question on which side you are,
whether for the oppressed or for the
oppressor.
i know very well that this simple
work of humanity to which we are
now summoned by ’so many voices at
home and abroad, is represented as a
mere political afiair. but it involves
the essential life of religion. in the
progress of this cause, i behold the
influence of whatever religion there is
in this land. they who are toiling for
justice and mercy for the slave seem
to me to occupy at this day the same
position which was held, by the early
christians in their day. 1 look not to
the increase ot churches, to the zeal
with which church going is observed;
i look not to the forms and ceremonies
of worship, to the measures which are
adopted, the societies that are lorraed,
the monies that are collected, i regard
not these things as the indications of
the life, and power and progress of
religion. true religion before god is
to do justly and to love mercy—to feel
for the slave as enslaved w ith him—to
condemn the sin of oppression—to pro
claim liberty for all men of every name
and color. i cannot, his not in me, to
have any respect for the religion which
while it observes forms with scrupu
lous exactness and regularity, passes
over justice and the love of man. *ii
the love of freedom, if sympathy for
the wronged alnchn f is increasing in
our land,"then is true religion flourish
ing. this is the true religious re
vival. for the sake of religion then,
as we would be truly religious, wc must
be humane, and use all our strength to
undo the heavy burdens and to let the
oppressed go free. even though no
effort of ours could liberate a single
.lave, still, for our own soul’s sake, as
iwe would know the power of religion
•in our own hearts, and by our. own
personal experience, we must commit
ourselves to the cause of man’s eman
cipation from wrong. there ts no
alternative, no peace, no hope, no life
foru*, but in cherishing that *ptnt of
rochester, n. y., friday, july 27, 1849.
love, which feels instantly and deeply
for the injured, and knows no rest until
they are righted. that spirit is the
spirit, the life of god in the soul of
man. oh, not in doctrines nor in
forms, is our life, but in loving what is
right with all our strength, and our
neighbor as ourselves.
finally, brethren, upon the return
of this season, i rejoice in it as the
most cheering indication in the condi
tion and prospects of this country
the agitation, which has commenced
and is going on in regard to human
rights. there is no more salutary dis
cipline for an age and a people than to
be engaged in the contest for great
principles. it is a regenerating pro
cess. our fathers learned the value
of liberty by doing ind enduring in its
behalf. we can learn its value only
in the same way. we can know the
truth only by doing the truth. once
work for it, once suffer for it, and you
will know’, as you never can know oth
erwise, what a treasure, what a foun
tain of life it is. so mighty is truth,
that if we only grasp at the hem of her
garments, with a hearty good will, a
healing and life-giving power will shoot
through our whole being.
from the 'iti-slavery standard.
progress on long island.
our friends the fosters, who have
always been distinguished for the per
tinacity with which they pursue an
object which they have once under
taken to accomplish, without regard to
obstacles, are still on long island.,
j their experience of the intelligence ot
the people of hempstead did not pre
vent them from going to flushing and
holding the meeting under george'
fox’s oak in accordance with the
notice published in the last standard,
though they probably foresaw the re
ception which awaited them. they,
would, we have no doubt, had they
lived in these days, have been behind
lot’s wife in the flight from the doomed
city, without any fear of a saline cat
astrophe; and in the devout hope of
j still finding some who would listen to a
call for repentance; so they could not
turn away from a spot where the great
quaker had preached, trusting that a’
few might still dwell there who had
some perception of the truths taught
by early friends. but had fox him
self appeared in his leather breeches
and we can conceive of no more dread
ful apparition to modern quakerism —j
he would hardly have met with a worse
reception. of what that reception
would be, they had a foretaste in a pre
vious meeting which is of
in i fie flushytg journal:
“mobocracy —onlifonday evening
last, stephen -s-. and abby k, £ostsr
undertook to deliver a lecture tin
slavery at national hall. the room
was crowded with listeners. the
tone and tenor, of the remarks of the 1
speakers were so objectionable* that a
portion of the audience; who had evi
dently come prepared to be dissatis
fied, commenced throwing eggs at
abby and stephen. the meeting
broke up in a row, the speakers bare
ly escaping with whole bones. a
more disgraceful affair never occurred
in this village, than this attack of a
pack of rowdies to use violence against
a helpless man and woman. abby
and her helpmate are entitled to their
opinions, whatever they may be, as
much as those who would use violence
to restrain them from utteridg their
sentiments. if the speakers uttered
objectionable sentiments, the proper,
way to treat the offence was to leave
the* room. the speakers would not
have continued to .address empty
benches. it is too bad that some ten
or a dozen mobocrats should be posses
sed of the power to disgrace by such'
actions our beautiful village. we are
the more particular in speaking of this,
affair, in order.that the respectable.
portion of our people—we mean those
who are attached to law and order,;
may advise with the proper authorities
upon some means to restrain the spirit
of rowdyism, which is becoming rather j
too rampant. there are some dozen
or so of geniuses, who have for some
months been paving their way to noto
riety hy sundry acts; and they should
not be disappointed of the legitimate
consequences ot their devility. it is
quite time that something should be
done to abridge their ability to disturb
the public quiet
we learn from a private letter that
the sunday meeting which was here
foreshadowed, and to which some
friendly hand thus endeavoured to give;
a uew character, fulfilled the prophetic j
fears of this writer. notwithstanding
the day was sunday, and the place
“fox’s oak,” under which the disor-j
ganizer and fanatic of his time had;
preached, and is held venerable—we,
will venture to sav not one in a hun-
dred of them can tell why—by tbe peo-j
pie of flushing, and m spite of the in
fluence of samuel parsons, a friend, j
and one of the most respectable citi
zens of the place, who declared that
the lecturers should be protected in
their right to addresi a public assem
bly the meeting was broken up by the
shrieks and screams, hisses, cat-calls,
beliowings, and other characteristic
noises of the sunday-pious, and patrio
tic people of that town. the intelli
gesi magistrates of the nlluge proved
themselves us civil fathers—according
to the long island fashion, we suppose
_by ordering the fosters ofl the
i ground, and threatening them with
prosecution if they persisted id break
ing the peace by affording an object for
t the brutality of tbe people, thus beaded
by these civil fathers, on which to vend
itself. mrs. foster was struck in the
faceby an egg, which fortunately how
f ever, contained tmbrjq chicken—
an instance of the prodigality of the
1 flushiogites for which we were nol
prepared, though it proves the sinceri
ty of their admiration of slavery, thal
1 they are willing to rob their own hen
roosts to show’ how entirely they ap
prove of a higher sort of theft.
mr. and mrs. foster have, this week,
gone more into the interior of the island,
and we have some hope ot hearing bet
ter accounts from them there.
we subjoin a communication which
we find in the hempstead inquirer,
which would find a fining place among
the specimens of the literature of the
south which we are wont, from time
to time, to give upon our first page. it
is a fitting defence of the cause it advo
cates, and properly holds up the hands
of the editor of the inquirer, from
whom we quoted last week, and who,
we hear, by the bye, is a pious member
lof the methodist episcopal church—
whether north or south our informant
sayeth not:
icp in the last number of the long
island farmer, its editor expresses a
great deal of regret that the spirit of
“misrule” should have broken out in
this village, in connection with some
lectures which were delivered here by
the notorious foster, and his more no
torious wife, abby. now we by no
i means intend to become the defenders
of any who resort to turbulent means to
deter any person, however disreputa
ble from the expression of any senti
ments however disgracelul. there
are other and better ways of prevent
ing or at least of remedying the mis
chief. but we hold him. who, with a
full knowledge of the nature of the
opinion which foster and his wife pro
fess to entertain, and of the nature of
their method and style of propagating
them, would defend those opinions, or
justify the language oftheir exponents,
as one whose judgment should not be
relied upon as a public teacher, and
whose notions of what is due to public
decency, are neither safe nor respect
able. the object of the lectures, as
far as we could understand it, was two
fold,—to demonstrate the enormity of
slaveholding, and to suggest means of
its abolition. and to illustrate the
first, it was considered necessary to
proclaim in the most positive manner
that the great majority of the people of
this republic have thought fit from con
fidence in their integrity and honor, to
entrust the making and the execution
of our laws, and in whom we have
confided the safety of our iifstitutions,
and the honor of our country, are in
the most literal apd emphatic sense,
“liars, thieves, and pirates and to.
ppint* out the second, it was recom;
mended that the'gonstitutfon and
of the country, shonld.be boldly and
deliberately violated, trampled and
spurned, with the view of a* fence effect
ing n dissolution of afid des
ignedly exposing the southern section
ofthe country to tjie horrors of a sty
vile insurrection; whereby it is fondly
hoped that the negroes there might by
fire and the sword, rapine and murder,
establish themselves as misters of that
region.
the arguments by which these views
were upheld w’ere* as little respectable j
in point of logic, as the sentiments
which they were intended to justify are
in point of morality. and whenever)
any person of respectability, actuated 1
by right motives, will endorse the one
or espouse the other, we hold ourselves
ready to make it manifest.
that a leading motive which prompts
the crusade in which foster and his
wife are engaged, is notoriety, no one 1
who listens to them can doubt. that
they in effect invited disturbance, say
ing that they expected to be insulted
and probably assailed, is equally well
known to all who were present. and
ito engage in any discussion with per
i sons of such character, would not only
be affording them the readiest m|ans
of accomplishing their unworthy object,
but derogatory to any one who would
become their antagonist.
from the article furnished by f’oster
to the farmer, from which the editor
of the f'armer has evidently imbibed
the tone of his own, we should be led
to suppose that hempstead had been
the only place in which these whole
sale slanderers had ever experienced
any disturbance; whereas in fact they
took peculiar pleasure in telling, in
the course of their tirades, how fre
i quently they had been inaulled and as
saulted. and in truth if auy confidence
is to be placed in their own statements,
they were treated here, not only much
better than they deserved, but with less
interruption than they have generally
met with. the disturbance at most
i amounted to some boyish interruptions
‘in the lecture room, and some funny
expreaaions, such as “go it spec
“hurrah for aunt abby” and caen
equally innocent, which occurred dur
ing a bar room discussion in which the
s worthy who plays second fiddle to the
late miss kelly, chose to engage him
j ae^’
we fervently hope they may fare no
i worse elsewhere. as to the editor of
the f’armer in connection with this
matter, he has been evidently misled as
to the manner in which bis new ac
quaintances conducted themselves.
i had he beard tbe lectures he would
i hove been as prompt as we to have con
demned them as not only offensive in
manner but disgraceful in substance.
and we have only to hope that hcre
after, he willjadopt the principle, “audi
alteram partem,” before he bears dowr
too hard upon “old blue.” we mighi
“carry the war into africa,” and sat
something concerning a descent upor
the court house one fine night—bu'
i at present we prefer peace. verbun
sapient! sutficit.
the pope has sea* 9,000 francs for tb<
relief of distress in ixelaai,
fruoitlic f<ii»l«r;ii (bco{.) evcniag coumnt
edi. "i burgh ladies’ em arc ip a
tiox society.
the annual meeting of tins societ;
was held in the religious insti utioi
rooms, york place, yesterday. th<
attendance, which was chiefly of la
dies, was numerous and highly res
pectable.
the secretary read the annual re
port of the society, which stated tha
the committee had, d iring the past
year, kept up regular monthly meet
ings. and circulated much intormation
particularly in reference to the intro
duction of free labor produce instead o
that of slave labour; besides this, i
box of contributions had been des
patched to the anti-slavery bazaar ai
boston, united states, which was val
ued at £157, and assisted materially
the pecuniary success of the bazaar,
which as a whoje realised the sum o!
3300 dollars. the report then pro
ceeded to give a slight sketch of the
anti-slavery cause at large, trom which
it appeared thatslavery in america
still continued to i great extent, 3,000,
000 being there held in slavery; that
the churches, with some exceptions
whicn we are glad to find are in
creasing'), bear no testimony against the
sin of their land; but rather, on the
contrary, lend their sanction to the
guilt of the slaveholder. the con
duct of the american board of com
missioners for foreign missions was
brought forward to show the inconsis
tency of their course, in leaving the
3,000,000 slaves at home in heathen
darkness, and suffering the tribes, to
whom they professed to carry the gos
pel, to continue in the sin of slave
holding. the discussions in the 1 louses
of the legislature were then referred
to, respecting the question of whether
slavery and a slave market should con
tinue to exist in the district of colum
bia, the seat of the government of the
free republic of the united states, and
also as to whether slavery should be
extended to the new territory added to
the union by the conquest of new mex
ico. several interesting cases were
introduced of the sufferings endured by
those who, from a sense of benevolent
and christian duty, assisted slaves in
their escape trom bondage to freedom,
fwo of these were fined the respective
sums of 5-100 and *2500 dollars; other
:wo have been sentenced to virtual
long life imprisonment; and another, a
respectable colored citizen was senten
ced to pay a fine of 500 dollars and
costs, to be imprisoned for ten months,
and tfren sold into slavery to the high-,
est bidder for fourteen the re
port then alluded to the satisfactory re
sults. of emancipation in the colonies
belonging and flenmark, aud
then proceeded to span up tite number
of slaves still in id by professedly chris
tian nations: this is computed at 7,000,*
000! the african slave trade is carried
on to an enormous extent; and from a
carefully prepared statement recently
laid before a select .committee pf the
house of commons it was ascertain
ed that during the last forty ypars 4,
"(01,800 of africans had been imported
into brazil, 1,440,0*47 into the spanish
colonies, and 502,000 into other coun
tries: the mortality during the middle
passage 1,121,*290; -captures by british
cruisers since the year 1810, 117,380
making a grand total of 5,048,500, as
he victims of the foreign african slave
;rade from 1807 to 1817. added to this
:ruly appalling statement is the dread
ful fact demonstrated by sir t.e. bux
ton, that for every slave embarked one
is sacrificed in the wars and tiie deten
in the baracoons, and thus we have the
result, that ten millions are the victims
of the slave trade for the last forty
years, of whom three fourths have
perished in africa and in the middle
passage, and the remnant are letl to
linger out a wretched existence, and to
meet a premature death. the report
concluded by entreating the aid, co-op
eration, and earnest, prayers of the
friendsofthe oppressed. the treasur
er’s statement showed the receipts to be
£43, 7s. 7d., aqd the expenditure to be
£35, bs. the committee and office
bearers were then appointed for the
next year, and a circular was read,
stating that the committee had resolved
to send this year, as formerly, a box
»f contributions to the boston anti-
slavery bazaar, and the contributions
requested to be prepared as usual be
fore the ist of november.
the meeting then proceeded to con
sider a memorial proposed to be for
warded to the qtieen, with the signa
tures of the women of britain: it is to
the effect that her majesty w.ll do all
in her power for the extinction of the
g'ave trade, and the promotion ef the
use of the produce of free labor. the
meeting agreed to adopt the memorial,
and to endeavour to interest friends in
the city and country, with a view to
promoting its extensive signature. they
also proposed to circulate many pub
lications on the free labor question, ol
which several copies were distributed
at the meeting.
we hope the ladies of kdinburgh wil
not neglect this opportunity of uniting
in a testimony to anti-slavery prince
pies, and that the memorial wilt b<
signed m a manner to reflect credit on
our fellow towns-women.
slavery ix california.
the latest and muni approved hchetim
of slaveholder* and their accomodating
allies in the northern state*, m tin
pretence that slave* cannot he em
ployed, and that slavery will he t y l
crated, in california. how tna»/ 9r
to be deceived by the arhiice re, v*"''
to be seen. we hope bat
•lave* can be employed m an form a
and that 81av«ry an ioftitution a:
john pick,
whole no. 83.
be carried to that territory, we have
an abundance of proof. it was only*
last spring, just at the close of the last
congress, tiiat the present attorney
general of the l nited states said in
the senate, that slave labor could be
employed in california and should be
employed there, and that the south
should unite to bring about such a re
sult. such has been the doctrine of
southern politicians (thoae who have
been honest enough to speak their
thoughts) ever since the first blow
was struck in the mexican war. there
are doubtless many in california who
would gladly keep slavery from that
territory, but there are others, and a
much more numerous class, who, im
mersed as they are in schemes of wealth
ami impelled ouwnrd by the most re
sistless current of avarice which pre
vails among the present population of
that country, care little whether slavery
is introduced ihere or not, too little to
take any trouble themselves about it.
and there is yet another class of
californians, who, instead of being
indifferent to this subject, are decidedly
in love with the scheme of carrying
slavery to that region, and stand ready
to participate in the business when
ever they shall be allowed to do sp.
the following of intelligence
furnish additional proof of w hat w e are
saying:
slaves wanted tv california.—
w e gave an extract the other day, s b ys
the baltimore sun, show ing that though
it was declared the people of california
would exclude slavery, yet a merchant
at san francisco, from rhode island,
had bought a negro woman and child
for nmmio in addition, l. w. boggs,
formerly governor of missouri:
“in connection, let me say if your
sons will bring out two or three
negroes, who can work and attend at a
hotel, your brother will pay cash for
them at a good profit, and take it as a
great favor.”
a san francisco letter fron a new
yorker, written in april also says:
“good boys that a man could hire
cheap are wanted. a good negro
would do well. if l could buy a good
slave at the south, lie would be a good
thing if 1 could keep him.”
who, then, believes that there is no
danger of slavery’s being extended
over this new territory? nothing is
more certain, than that slavery will be
carried to california, and that soon,un
less by*an act of congress, a tree gov
ernment is guarantied to the people of
tlmf country.- i northern citizen.
a .'ir.iuc an *wuman.— the deaf ajul
r dumb indiffejkmce of the gneat mass oti
american oman to tire crying wrongs,
of the slave, oue of the stangestf
problems of tho times. wfr camtet
solve it* at alf. td our satisfaction.
woman are cither wholely dr meaaura-
w y .clear ot some of the most potent
mhuc.net s that keep men in the wrong"
—that is certain. the vile lust of
ollice—the use of, and iraftic in intoxi
cating liquors—the thousand dishon
est means employed in the acquisition
of wealth —these things, we suy, are
mostly confined to the masculine gen
der; and of the stupid ignoiaace, the
foolish pride, and miserable prejudice
that deform and disgrace humanity, a
full share falls to tfie male side/ add
to this,that women are always conceded
to have quicker and deeper sympathies
than men, —and we cannot explain the
almost universal indifference manifes
ted by the former in regard to the mil
lions of slaves in our land. yv r e believe
the women alone, it they would but ar
rouse and wield it, possess the power
to kill w ar, slavery andjintemperance.
why will they not exercise it?— htrk
freeman.
tiif.capital plmsment question.
—lt behoves all christians to get as
much light as they can upon this sub
ject of choking people to death. if tho
gallows is a divine iusrumentality for
making men better, we ought not to
give it up but if is not a divine instru
mentality, the sooner we get rid of it
the better. in a late pumber of the
exeter england) times, we find an
ably written review of a sermon preach
ed by the dean of exeter, and just
published under the title of “the sa
credness of human life and the doom
of murder.” the dean takes for bis
text the passage, “whoso sheddetli
man's blood, by man shall his blood be
shed;” and the reviewer, who evident
ly understands what he is talking about,
denies the authority of lueac xiorda,
and gives the following reason:
1 say, these are not the words of
god. it may seem strange for lay
man, to contradict s ctergunsn, on
such a point ;but this is not the iiist uuus
ecclesiastical dignitaries have been set
right in their theology; nor will it ho
the last. 1 must, therefore, he pardon
ed for my presumption. the words of
god are these whatsoever sheddetli
man’s blood, its blood will be shed:”
and* if mr. asks me bow i prove
this, i refer him to the original hebrew,
to the to the vulgate, and
to the versions (among others) of wic
liff, calmet, scio and ostervaw. the
words “by man” are an imurpotaiwn,
and were placed in the passage by inc
“bishops, priests and deacons, who
produced one common version, ane
ica.ed .1 <o >h«
lr.n« james, »be burned
ibjuude of old women cot wilcbcr.ft.
i opoo bible authority. wore.
wu-mi, the voeabst, died on the 9th inst,
usehtw. canada, from exposure while on a
mb mg excursion.
james g. birney is said to be lying dangerously ill at his residence in michigan.
tribute of respect to william lloyd garrison
i rom the boilov emux ipttor ami kepuwican
the meeting of colored citizens held ai
bromfield hal), on monday evening', was 0t
ffanized by the choice of john i ho'on,
president; henrv'w. weeden, thomas dal
ton, robert morris, jr., coffin puts and john
t smith, vice presidents isaac h. snow
den and wm t. raymond, secretaries. ihe
president stated that the object ot the meeting
was to present to wm. lloyd garrison a
testimonial of their affection and esteem, and
to extend to wm. w. brown the right hand
of farewell, on his departure as a delegate ot
the american peace society, to the congress
of nations, to be held in august. mr. wm.
c. nell was introduced to the audience and
in a very appropriate speech tendered to mr.
garrison, in behalf of the colored citizens ot
boston, a heautilul silver pitcher or» which
were inscribed the following words
“our country is the world,
our t’ounirynw'n are all mankind.”
prcttnted to \vit.i.t am li otd grsmios.bj tl»e
colored citizens of boston, in grateful testimony
of his undetiating devotion to ibe cause of
i. itivenial emancipation.
july 16.184 h.
mr. garrison replied at some length, and
with great eloquence, giving a condensed ac
count of his labors in the anti-slavery re
form, and ihe obstacles overcome, nnd closing
with the request that if ever he proved re
creant lothe have, and betrayed his interests,
that they should u’ke back their gift, for u
would be no longer his. mr. thomas p
smith in a few remarks which drew forth the
hearty applause of the audience, tendered tc
mr. brown the congratulations ofhis friends,
with their earnest desire for a successful mis
sion to the old world, and a speedy return tc
his native land. mr. brown (who is a fugi
tive slave, and has never had an hour's school
ing m his life,) responded in a manner thai
would have done credit to a man of finished
education. after a few remarks from wen
dell phillips, and rolert morris jr., esquires,
and the passage ol resolutions complimentary
to messrs. garrison and brow n, the meeting
broke up with enthusiastic cheers for georgt
thompson of england, and the great cause
of emancipation. a.
we had the pleasure ot attending the meet
ing and listening to the addresses, and w t
readily endorse the commendation of our cor
respondent. the occasion was one of deej
interest, and must have been highly gratify
ing to mr. garrison. he appeared somewhai
oppressed and embarrassed at the evidence o
affectionate regard on the part of the colorec
citizens of boston. he may well feel grati
fied at the evidences of confidence which the
colored people of boston and the country
inaiulest towards him. he has richly earned
their confidence and regard. for twenty
years he has fought the battle of their race
with heroic devotion. at all times, in pros
perity and adversity, he has been as true tc
them as the needle to the pole. persona
friendships, party attachments, religious as
nociatious, all have been made to yield to his
devotion to the rights of the colored race.
statesmen, patriots, philosophers, and
political economists have advocated the
abolition of slavery for the best interests ol
the country, but to william lloyd garrison
belongs the glory of advocating the cause ol
emancipation for the sake of the poor, des
pised and degraded slave. history will give
him that glory—the world will accord it to
him. he took his position at once by the
tide of the slave. fro m that point he has
viewed and judged political parties, churches
and governments. he has embodied and
uttered the sentiments of the colored race
towards the institutions that oppress that race.
no wonder, then, that he has the love and
confidence of that oppressed race of man.
they will give him their confidence while
living, and when dead, they will revere his
name and cherish his memory, and water
with their tears the sods that shall lie on his
bosom.
mk rkmond’s address.—on last even
ing a large and highly .respectable audienci
attended at the city hall to listen to the ad
dress from mr. remond upon the conditior
of the free people|ofcolor in the free states
it was a masterly vindication ofhis race, and
conclusive in its proofs as to the cause ol
their inferiority, where any exists. —thai
cause the eloquent lecturer showed to be an
unnatural prejudice, alike unreasonable and
disreputable to the whites who indulge it
the treatments received by mr. r. while
in europe was admirably contrasted with that
which his race is subjected to in this country
and we may say, the picture was one on ac
cotfnt of which we, as americans, havt
cause for deep and painful humiliation. wt
cannot do mr. remond so much injustice as
to attempt a synopsis of his speech. wlier
vve say that it was impressive, eloquent
earnest, brilliant, and scathing w idi a just anc
honorable indignation to the oppressors oi
his brethren and our brethren, we have giver
but a faint idea of what we conceive to be
one of the noblest and manliest efforts it has
been our fortune to listen to this many s
day.
mr. remold's visit to this plaee cannot but
be productive ot much good. every one whn
hears him or comes in personal contact with
hint is charmed by his singular eloquence, his
polish and suavity. he is a living refutation
of the) stereotyped falsehood of inferiority.—
and what is more, his prssence forces this
conviction upon the minds of even the most
deeply prejudiced. we are gratified to learn
that mr. remond. at the earnest solicitation
of numerous trienda, has consented to de
liver another lecture before leaving the city.
w e hope he will feel lmnself able to delivei
several more.
mr. monroe, a gentleman of color also, ad
dressed the meeting last night we were
too late to hear him, but are informed that ii
was an able effort.— chicago tribune.
erom ilic chronotype.
“what ahull we eat
ihe cry is every where, what shall we eat 1
—some ask, ‘whatsha’nt we eat the
cholera is come. how shall we escape 1 1
cannot get away. “i am in jail.”— ‘‘on the
jury,”—“on the bench”—‘‘nailed to the
counter,” —“a marriage intended,” and what
not, —”1 can’t go.” ‘‘lt’s no go with me.
"hat shall 1 eat 1 of “what shall we
dnnk r the question is small. men and wo
men drink pretty much what they please, and
no question asked—at least there is none for
‘‘conscience sake. from aqua c'oolutuata
down to aqua vita-, they all and each choose
as they please, and drmk thru, ‘‘plague on
all cholera, say they, “we will drink.”
and who asks, “wherewithal shall we be
clothed ’’’nobody.—from jacket to tack-
lorn broadcloth to drill «v e v wears
w hat he best likes or most easily kets [l( j
who is not satisfied 1 from the pauper, uh u
lies down, all standing and gets up as he laid
himself down, —who carries jus whole w ard
robe upon him, and sometimes something
—to the nicest gentleman juat loose from
huntington's, wlio complains ofhis dr«ss
nobody—man, woman, nor child.
but “what shall we eat j i stopped at a
pronsioner’s shop yesterday. he sat solita
ry on bis meat-hlock. his hat was on ins
head, fox nobody’s presence bad asked so
much courtesy of him aa to take it off. tlie
radishes were wilted, the asparagus withered,
the spinage yellow, the potatoes sprouimg.
every green thing looked askance as if they
wondered why they had not been bought 1
piued the silly things, and in my turn won
dered they had taken the trouble to grow.
i spoke to my useful neighbor and kindly
asked how was business. “o, nothing, no
thing,” cried, or sighed he, “mrs a. sent
word to send no more lettuce and sent back
wbst i had sent.—mrs u. sent back the as
paragus and said she should want no more till
next spring mr*c«. said as much about
spinage, and my poor potatoes you see are all
rujijudg to trtl-d.
i went on and csj led on a medical friend.
a patiest was in his study.— take,” said
he, “every now and then, p. r. n. ten drops
laudanum stop at dr place, and
get some no lake a prescription, for they
won't sell you the beat without one. what
shall i eat i “for dinner a bit of lean heef
or mutton —broiled or roasted—with boiled
rice or stale bread. for breakfast and sup
per boiled milk and rici or bread and if you
are not better in three days, come again, and i
will tell you what to do next.” ‘there,'
added mv friend, “mr. x. you see the second
who has called within an hour on account of
very small maladies, and want as much ad
vice as if they hod the cholera with collapse
but they do wisely for you know obsta prin
cipal is the word now-adays.”
“what shall we eatl quote the bible
for niy answer, not being a medical man.
“eat the bread of carefulness.” “pray
what sort of bread, mr. x., is that,” said
mrs. partington. “is it sweet bread, or is
it shew bread 1 the lady’s question is per
tinent, and i can answer it. “the bread of
carefulness,” is the bread one makes, or
earns for himself. it comes from clean hands,
a pure and honest heart, and a firm mind. it
is always light, and white, and sweet. you
cannot starve upon it, and of u you will rare
ly eat too much' and if you do, it won't
hurt you. it brings with it easy digestion,
or it finds it. it is full of contentment,
which says the bible, with godliness, is
great gain. it fears the cholera no more than
u does the bailiff. if the woid is “die,” 1
which a never says itself, it responds, “die.”
it does not regard life so much as truth, and
does not fear death so much as wrong. now
is not this good biead 1 i*et the people make
it,’ and eat a.”
such, mr. editor, is my homily for,the
times—not your neighbor exactly, or special-
but for the people, and for him amongst
the rest. we are, they say, in a panic be
cause of the cholera. this is the suresmvay
to get a. it is going after a, and a will
pretty surely find it now tell the people to
forego all such folly.—tell them to. keep to
work as they have been for years. let them
eat and drink and wear things agreeable and
convenient for them and do caution them
not to ask, as the sweet and graceful morsel
travels over their clean and healthful tongue,'
if it have not cholera in it. tell them that
they must feel sure of being well, and then
“go ahead.” mr. x.
louis kossuth ol hungaiy.
jt is often said that a great man is the crea
ture of an emergency; the product of ‘.he
times. without disputing that great enr.er-
i gencies develope the highest human energies,
we can usually gobeyond these emergencies,
and find their cause in those very men who
manfully meet them when they appear. in
this view, many a hero who seemed thrown
up by a popular wave to be the leader of a
nation, becomes doubly great as the cause cf
the tumult, which by the popular voice, he is
called upon to direct or allay. such a man
is louis kossuth, the present master-spirit
of hungary.
liouis kossuth is of noble birth, and is now
forty three years of age. at the age of
j sixteen, we find him in pesth, engaged in
the study of law. he was extremely poor,
but his industry and energy precured him
malty strong friends, and among the rest,
several membeis of the hungarian diet. they
paid his debts, and furnished him in clothes
and board, and even paid his lecture fees.
he finished his course of studies, entered into
picture and succeeded in making a living,
though nothing more. for three or four
years he lived in comparative obscurity, and
then burst upon the stage a public man; and
such, except during three years of most cruel
imprisonment has he been ever since.
the hungarian constitution, established in j
1822, knew no law or provision against the
liberty of the press. notwithstanding this,*
j the austrian government has exercised for
1 ths last forty years, a most severe censorship,
i this censorship was not accomplished by any
1 processes of law, but the authors of the ob
noxious articles were secretly thrust in prison.
kossuth who lived in presburg in the year
1835, conceived the idea of learning the art
i of stenography, and himself reporting the
legislature. he did so, and published his
reports in lithographed copies. the gov
ernment tried every method of checking their
i circulation, and at last ordered kossuth to
discontinue the practice. the people now
i took the matter into their hands, and the
papers were carried to the houses ol the sub
scribers by the privileged messengers of the
‘‘comitates” or counties. this went on,
i until, immediately after the sudden proroga
tion of the diet, kossuth, several oth
ers, suddenly disappeared. the exciciement
was great, hut the government declared it
self ignorant of the whereabouts of the miss
ing men. three years after this, kossuth
with the unfortunate men who had been en
tombed in a dungeon svith him,appeared before
i their families. ofhis companions in misery,
one was blind, and another mad, but lus
own firm constitution had sustained him.
kossuth, the martyr was now the man
of the people. he became editor of the
pesth gazette, and in one year the paper
i multiplied its subscribers twenty times.
kossutb’s power of writing was felt every
where. the hungarian became the predom
inating language. in many villages the
peasants learned to read so as to be able to
peruse the gazette.—the attacks upon the
government and its officials were unceasing,
anu decided improvemennt in the adminis
tration of iaw was perceptible every where.
government at last bought the paper of the
proprietor, and kossuth was of course cut a
drift. he then endeavored to establish a
paper of his own, but did not succeed. he
at this time suggested the idea of a pro
tective union, ft had its basis in this it
had been three hundred years the policy of
i the austrinn government to extract as much
wealth as possible from hungary. this was
vione in various ways. the system of absen
i teeisrn was encouraged,the noble and wealthy
weie drawn and kept at ienna; and every
thing exported from hungary into the hered
itary .states, went duty free. in considera
tion of this,kossuth became the head of a so
ciety, which, in a short time, numbered more
than half of the nation, and which resulted in
the establishment of manufactories; while
the noblest ladies, instead of foreign silks,
wore coarse hungarian cottons. the nature j
and objects of this society are indicated in the
original proposition, as follows:
hungary is divided in 52 komitats (coun
ties.) if we should succeed in inducing
two in-‘uufactureis to settle in each county,
if we could give them the nescesary lands,
it would be to the interest of those manu
facturers to build the roads neecessrv to a
communication with the surrounding markets.
if successful we should thus have at least
four principal highways in each county. to j
empower these men io carry ontheirmanufae
tories and to bring them to perfection, we i
must guarantee them not only a maiket, but
for the first years even pecuniary aasistanee.'
the whole nation, therefore has to bind it-;
self by its word of tionor, not to use or pur-!
chase the products of any lereign manufactu
rer, until its own manufacturers should be a
ble to produce articles equal to that |of for
eign countries.
this union was at last dissofved by the;
cunning of mettermcii and his tools.—kos-
auth retired, slandered. but he could not j
remain idle, and immediately expended his
energies in endeavoring to create a free har-
bor m h lume. to be connected with pesth by j
railway. 1 his was to be followed by a hun-
gaiiaii navy, and the people look up the idea
wall enthusiasm. here he was foiled again,!
•m ll 1 we ijui ,n the
ilie emperor of austria opened his diet,
and kossuth immediately became the soul of i
it. from november 1h47, to march 1648, j
he accomplished more by bis power of pei-
suasion and eloquence, tfiau france had
effected with the bayonet.—here the events
ofhis fife crowd so quickly and startlingly j
upon owe another tb»t we have wot apace to
chronicle them. he made minister’of finance,
president of the ministry, and carries avery
measure that he proposes. since the abdo
cation of the emperor ferdinand on decem
ber 2d. the history of kossnth has been the
history of hungary-
that he is the prominent man now upon
the world's stage, none doubt who know his
recent history. he is a powerful writer, an
eloquent orator, a statesmau of consummate
abiluy.and m all points s truly great man. his
oratory is astonishing. he has fine features,
and a commanding presence. he addressed,
and carried the germans in german. he
spoke to the sclaves in the mountain cities in
the slovak languages, and raised them to a
pitch of fearful excitement.—the catholic
j clergy he gained in their assembly council
|at sumog, by a thrilling speech in
he has already run a career of glory, and
the way seems clear before him for yet high
er renown. he hai succeeded in fastening
the attention of the world, and engaging the
sympathies of all true friends of freedom
fy-nngjicld republican.
george thomson of england.
groton, july 9, 1849.
friend garrison
we were favored yesterday with a visit
from an agent of the american colonization
society, the rev. mr. pratt. he occupied the
pulpit of the orthodox church in the morning,
and the unitarian in the afternoon. his dis
course (the one to which 1 listened —and both
were alike, i suppose) was made up of the
absurd, contradictory and wicked arguments
usually advanced in support of african expa
triation. ido not propose to allude to them
particularly, but simply to notice an assertion
in reference to george thomson, which
greatly surprised me. he said that the hon.
george thomson asserted in his place in the
british parliament, that the scheme ot afri
can colonization, as advocated by the ameri
can colonization society, was the only means
of destroying slavery and the slave trade, and
elevating the colored race in other words,
that he advocated the claims of that society.
how is it
i ought to say, perhaps, that mr. p. said
nothing abusive of abolitionists.
yours for the rights of all,
s. c. wheeler.
touching the colonization discourse of the
rev. mr. pratt, at groton, as described by
our correspondent in another column, we
deem it necessary merely to say, for the pre
sent, that vve have no more doubt that the
assertion in regatd to mr. thomson is utterly
false, than we have that the american colo
nization society is upheld by lying deception,
cant and brutality.— jjbrrator.
peace congress at paris. —as some
apprehensions have been expressed by our
friendsjt hat the state of siege tn which paris
is at the present time, may prevent the con
templated meeting ol the peace congress at
paris on the appointed day, vve are happy to
allay them by the publication of the following
extract from a private letter from mr. burntt,
dated at london. june 22d.
“we are waiting a few days for the politi
cal agitation and the cholera to subside in
paris, before vve goto make the final arrange
ments. we shall assume that the congress
will certainly be held in paris but if any
awful convulsions occur to render it imprac
ticable, we shall arrange so as to change our
place of meeting to brussels at the shortest
notice. so i hope you will not entertain a
doubt for a moment of the congress being
held at the appointed time. it will not make
an hour’s difference, in time, or a farthing in
expense, to shift to brussels, if anything un
forseen should occur to induce us to go thith
er.”
in addition to the above, our friend ed
mund fry informs us that mr. de tocque
vtlle, the present minister for foreign affairs
in france, has given in his name, to be one
of the committee of arrangements in paris.—
ch. citizen.
proscription in ohio.
henry c. wright, in a letter to the
liberator, dated massillon, stark co. 0., has
the following account of a shameful instance
of proscription on account of color, enacted
by the hypocritical religionists of that town.
wherein is christianity better than heathen
ism, if it authorises such violation of right
there are some six or eight families ol
i colored people here, having some twelve oi
fifteen children of suitable age to be in the
school. when the school was opened last
year, under the management of the present
trustees and teachers, the colored children
were admitted with others, and were treated
by teachers and scholars the same as others.
the children associated with them in free
and loving intimacy, and so did the teachers
and trustees. none made their complexion
their leproach. the colored children, as to
talents and behavior, were on a par with the
others; and some of them were the brightest
and best behaved scholars in the school, as
teachers and trustees assure me. but this
was not to be endured. soon, some parents
began to cry out against having their children
i associated with colored children. a petition
j was circulated by george hine, a church
member, to gel the colored children* excluded
i from the school. a meeting was called ol
the voters of the town, and, by a formal town
vote, the colored children were excluded from
the school. this was done under the fol
i lowing act, at that time iu force, and now it is
but little better. the past winter, the law
was amended so as to make it optional with
the trustees to exclude them or not
j sec. 4. and be it further enacted, that
iin every city, incorporated town or village,
seat of justice, or organized township m
this state, containing a less number than
twenty black or colored children, desirous of
attending school, it shall be the duty of the
'directors of any school district, organized for
the education of white children, to admit
said black or colored children upon the same
terms, and they shall be entitled to the same
benefits as they would he if they were white,
under the acts to which this is an amendment.
provided, no written objection be filed with
the directors, signed by any person having a
1 child in such school, or by any legal voter of
'such district.
thus, you see, any drunken, polluted
vagabond of this town is, by law, empowered
|to cast all the colored children, however in
tellectual, w ell-behaved and desirous to learn,
from the public schools. so george hine,
a member of a church, in good and regular
standing, volunteered to do tlie deed, or to
lead on others to do it. there are no other
public schools in town but this. there are
no private schools, this public oue having
swallowed them all uj>. and lam told the
daughter of george hine, before this school
was opened, taught a private school, and
went to the colored people and solicited their
patronage, and urged them to send their chil
dren to her school. the colored people are
too few and too poor to susta.n a school con
sequently their children are without school
ing. then, the very persons who drive them
fiom the school are ever taunting them for
their ignorance. never was malignity more
satamc! what else can colored people be
but deadly enemies of the whites l it is the
government and the religion that make them
enemies, that drive them to ignorance and
vice, and then punish them. there are no
instances, in the records of man, of more
commendable forbearance, and suppression of
revenge and its murderous promptings, than
are found among the oppressed of this re
public.
in this action ot the church and state,
what makes it peculiarly hateful is, that the
law and the fact are a direct violation of the
constitution of the state, which they both
recognize a* tbeir supreme law. when
congresa framed a government for the terri
tory of ohio, it set apart one section of land
ui each town, to constitute a fund for the
education of til the children. the state
constitution was framed in 1802. the fol
lowing u the section touching schools:
sec. 25. that no law shall be passed to
pteveol ihe poor in the several counties and
i townships within thia state from an equal
participation in the schools, academies, col
leges and universities within this state, which
are endowed, in whole or in part, from the
revenue arising from donations made by the
united states for the support of schools and
colleges and the doors of such schools and
universities shall be open to the reception ofi
scholars, students and teachers, of every]
grade, without any distinction of preference,
whatever contrary to ihe intent for which said i
donations were made.'
nothing could be more explicit. this pub-]
lie school of massillon receives, annually.]
over 600 dollars of that donation, given by j
you, by me. and by every man and woman,]
to educate all the children of massillon, ‘with-]
out any distinction or preference whatever;’
and yet george hine, the church member,
and his allies, break into our schixd, and
thrust out some twelve or fifteen of the schol
ars. solely because of their complexion, j
ministers and churches are dumb about it.
nay, not duned, they hound on those who
perpetrate this mean, satanic deed, and then,
denounce us as infidels and atheists, because,
we wdl not worship at their shrine, and allow j
them to call over us the name of their god.
their god is a fiend; their reli
gion, an imposition: and for one, 1 intend so
to treat it and him, and to call on all the out-
raged and oppressed to join me. that fiend,'
to whom the perpetrators of 9uch atrocities
build churches rung, make prayers and ser- j
mons, and perlbrm*« orship whom they dig-1
nify with the title of god, must be dethroned
from the hsarts of the people, before they!
can admit the reign of humanity and justice
and before they can be made to have any j
just conception of him, who created this;
world, and engraved on the constitution of
our social emstence, the law—*do to others,
as you would that they should do to you.,;
will not the convention of colored people, j
to meet august ist,in cincinnati,take up this 1
matter 1 where are the free-soilers of ohio*
why do they not make the abolition of these
laws; and the vindication of the rights of thair
colored fellow citizens, rest questions of their
party 1 will the colored people be earned a
way by their appeals, unless they will?
the north star.
rochester, july 27, j 649.
bibles and testaments for distribution
among the colored people.
we have received, through a benevolent
friend of the oppressed in this country, one
hundred copies of bibles and testaments,
which are at our disposal, for gratuitous dis
tribution among colored families destitute of
the sacred scriptures. it is proper to state
that these bibles have been generously given
for this purpose, by the british and foreign
bible society, and that the same society will
be happy to furnish us with an additional sup
ply, if more shall be needed. any person
destitute of a bible and wishing to obtain a
copy of either bible or testament, will be
provided with pleasure at the north star
office.— f. d.
charles lenox kemoqd.
intelligence from the west assures us of the
interest excited in that quarter by the hap
py efforts of this talented and eloquent
advocate of equal rights. for a very hand
some notice of his first lecture in chicago,
we refer our readers to the article in another
column copied from the daily tribune of
that city.
the first oi august celebration at
cincinnati.
it is now certain that 1 cannot fulfil my
engagement to be present at thia interesting
anniversary. the searching illness to which
i have been subjected during the past fort
night, has left me in a condition wholly unfit
for the fatigue of the journey and the labors
expected of me on that occasion. i shall
share mutually with my beloved friends and
co-workers in cincinnati, the regret and pain
of this disappointment. to say that i have
looked forward to this occasion with far more
interest than i ever contemplated a similar
anniversary, is but weakly to express ray
feelings. i have long desired to visit cincin
nati. a good report has gone forth of the
enterprize, spirit, industry, intelligence, and
independence of the colored citizens of that
place, and i wished to see them face to face,
to press their industrious hands, and commune
with them on the destiny of oar enslaved and
oppressed fellow countrymen. i expected
to see them and to return home refreshed,
strengthened and invigorated by my fellow
ship with them. i his great happiness is
denied me, for the best undoubtedly but how
hard is it for short sighted beings like our
selves to submit to disappointments without a
murmur. i shall not, however, despair of
meeting my fellow sufferers under the ban
of oppression in cincinnati. 1 still hope that
the day is not far distant when i shall have
the pleasure of meeting and confering with
them on the great subject nearest our hearts.
—f. d.
w e call attention to the letter of our vigi
lant british correspondent, as containing the
latest synopsis of the affairs of england, and
ol europe in general. we share deeply the
indignation he feels for the unnatural and ex
traordinary conduct ot the french republic
towards the friends of liberty in rome. the
position of france in this matter is but ano
ther proof that the spirit of tyranny and op
pression finds a place as secure in the bosom
ot a republic as in the heart of a despotic
names are nothing. the
shouting ot “liberty, equality, and fraternity”
l in paris—and the slaughtering the friends of
freedom at rome, is like the conduct of our
own republic, which, fills the world with its
boasts of liberty, while it holds, in the most
abject bondage, oue sixth part of its entire
population. many of the basest acts of our
government against freedom and justice have
been perpet rated in the sacred name of liberty.
the annexation of texas the mexican
war—the florida war though each and
all intended to strengthen and sustain sla
very, were defended in the name of justice
and right. if we go on at this rate much
longer, these terms will lose their significance;
republicanism will change places with des
potism, and the birth of a republic, instead of
being hailed with delight by a freedom-loving
woild, will be greeted with groans, as the
appearance of a monster of oppression. the
eonduct ot france towards rome, and that
ol the i nited states towards its colored in
habitants, strengthen the arm of tyrants
throughout the woild, aod serve to make the
very names of republic and republicanism vile
before all the people, in classing france
with the united we would not be un*
derstood as regarding kn guilt equal to ours.
france has emancipated her slates; and
though her conduct, in the instance above
alluded to, ia at variance with this noble act
of her provisional government, it places her
in a position far more creditable to her hu
manity and sincerity, than that occupied by
our boasted republic.— -r. o.

rev. henry highland gnrnet.
this individual, we understand, is to leave
the i’nited states for england during the
approaching autumo. the particular object
of bis mission to that country, is not positive
ly known—but from the well known views
of the party by whom he has been invited
andbywhomhe is to be supported while
there, it is probable, that he goes out as the
champion of the ‘‘free produce cause.” mr.
garnet is a man of talents and address. as
a speaker he ranks deservedly amongst the
first and most eloquent of his race, in this
country. to an english audience, he will
doubtless prove a most acceptable speaker,
and will excite ranch interest whetever he
may go. his complexion will be a help,
rather than a hindrance to his success. he
will find that the warm right hand of human
brotherhood, will be extended as freely to
him in old england, as to any other man—
of whatever color, caste, or clime. he w ill
look around in vain among tho crowds of
white persons whom he may meet to observe
a single averted eye, or the slightest mani
festation of the bitter and malignant hatred
with which the colored man is haunted in
this boasted land of liberty. he will find
to his entire satisfaction that color is no crime
in england. we.predict therefore that per
sonally the visit of mr. garnet to england
will be a very pleasant one.
as to the actual good that the cause of
the slave will receive from his labor in that
country, doubt may be very innocently en
tertained. on thisj point, duty requires us
to be plain, and while we would neither de
tract from the talents nor the zeal of mr
garnet, but freely give him the full benefit
of our testimony to both—we deem it due to
ourselves, as a friend of the cause of eman
cipation, and the elevation of the oppressed—
as well as to fair dealing, to give the public
on either side of the atlantic, in the most
explicit manner, our views of the man and
his mission. in the first place, mr. garnet
has again and again declared that he had no
faitli in moral means for the overthrow of
american slavery. that his hope for suc
cess was in the sword. he has held up moral
suasion repeatedly, to the scorn and contempt
of the colored peoplejn our presence, and
made many speeches in favor of insurrection
among the slaves, and these sentiments have
never to our knowledge been recalled uor
repented of. now for such a man to appeal
to the moral sense of england, and ask the
moral aid of england lor the aboliton of
slavery, is the veriest hypoersy and hollow
ness. the man whose conviction do not
go with his words, is not fit to plead this
cause—and his eloquence will merely be
sound and fury signifying nothing.
another reason which leads us to suspect
no good from the visit of mr. garnet to
england—is, that he goes there to espouse a
cause, which we believe he has never advo
cated here, either by precept or example.
now a man who will advocate a cause a
broad with respect to which he is silent at
home, does not give the best evidence of sin
cerity, and leaves the impression that his
motives are at least questionable. when and
where has mr. garnet written or spoken a
word in this country in favor of abstinence
from slave produce? we have attended with
him many conventions where he has taken
an active and even a leading part, but we
never remember to have seen the first line
from his pen, or heard the first word from his
lips, stating him to be an advocate of the use
of free produce. he may have become con
verted recently, but if so, one would suppose
that he would have made his conversion pub
lic at home, at least as soon as he published
it abroad. but no such profession has been
made here, and the natural inference from

the fact is, that this profession of faith is in
tended for a foreign market rather than for
home consumption. the party who has
invited him to england, hires him to advocate
a givent movement; and mr. garnet likej a
practical man, prepares himself for his office.
we do not hesitate to say, that no reliance 1
may be placed upon any statements which he 1
may make respecting the “north star” or
its editor, should he condescend to notice eith
er while in england. his feelings towards
us so far as we have been able to learn them,
aie those of bitter hostility. his course
here has been that of an enemy, and we have
no reason to believe that his course abroad j
will be that of a friend. we now take leave 1
of mr. garnet, having honestly given our i
opinion of hirn. he is at full liberty to slan
der and misrepresent us in england, or else
where, as he has done most liberally in j
various parts of the uuited states. we pre
fer an open enemy, to one in disguise we
therefore without any cowardly disclaimer of i
any kind, wish it to be understood that mr.
garnet and ourselves are on any other terms
than those of good fellowship.— t n.
calhoun and beaton.
the reply of mr. calhoun to col. benton,
of missouri is cow before the public, and
shows the intensity of the hatred and bitter
ness which exist between these two slave
holders and civil politicians. as usual, mr.
calhoun affects the utmost contempt for his
antagonist; but by the ruirmuieness of his
rejoinder testifies to the ability and power ol
his opponent. we rejoice to see these sen
atorial defenders of slavery embroiled and at
open war. much truth will be told on both
sides, to the detriment, perhaps of both par
ties. meanwhile, attention will be directed
to slavery—the bone of contention, and
agitation will be increased. in any event,
good must result to the anti-slavery cause
from this fierce controversy. in mr. calhoun’s
repiy to mr. benton, he takes the same
ground as that occupied in his southern
address, and places slave property on the
same footing with property of other kinds.
it is perfectly horrible to observe the pirate
like coolness with which he reasons about
his constitutional rights of property in the
bodies and souls of men, and about the in
justice and violence done to the slaveholders,
by refusiug to treat slaves as other property.
the iron-hearted blood socker never seems to
tftiect (os one moment,3 upon the fraud,
wrong, and flagrant injustice, which he is,
every hour perpetrating upon his victims—at
the same time that he is audaciously prating
about the rights of slaveholders. it is most
astomshingvat a reasoner so logical, with
perceptions so keen, should involve himself
m contradictions so palpable, and in inconsis
tencies so glaring as those into which mr.
(alhoun is constantly placing himself. a
man tn his position, an atrocious robber of h,s
fellow-creatures of their daily toil and of all
their rights and liberties, should tremble at
the very utterance of the terms —might and
justice. yet this wretch can discourse as
eloquently on these subjects as though his
guilty soul were not stained with the foulest
injustice and the most terrible crimes. some
years since, he hid dow n the doctrine, tn his
place in the american senate, that the la
borer has a nghuo the fruit of his toil against
the universe, and that he who deprives him
of it is a robber. by his ow n standard blind
ing mr. calhoun as a robber of the worst
kind.— r. n.
democrats nod free soilers. union.
the late rupture in the demoaratic camp
seems in a fair way to be healed. overtures
for union are being made on all hands. we
have already recorded notices of the uniteu
platform of four or perhaps five of the slates,
the basis of union must of necessity in all
such cas i be brought down very nearly to the
level of the most conservative party. th*
free soil men lose much in character and in
fiuence by such movements. it is, in every
case, a sacrifice of principle to interest—oi
conviction to expediency—of honest and truth
ful independence to the expectation or hope ol
political gain and preferment. why should
free soilers wish to unite with any party, or
any basis, were it not from some such motive 1
two or three are sufficient to make a party,
if a party must be made one is sufficient tc
stand alone, if he is only satisfied of the truth
of his principle. this descent of tho free
soil party from the platform which they
erected at buffalo, low and inadequate as that
was, is additional confirmation of the utter
inetficacy of any plan for bringing the truth
into successful operation, which depends upon
the external power of a majority, and noi
upon the irresistible influence of conviction.—
let the free soilers merge themselves intc
the democratic party, and they are lost for
ever to the cause of freedom, except as (wlier
not under government pay, or the expectatioi
of it,) restive units opposed to an overwhelm
ing majority.
a consulting convention of barnburner:
and hunkers,it seems, is shortly to be held ii
rome in this state, to devise ways and mean:
to bring about the desired result. convention:
have already been held in some of the eoun
ties. the following resolutions were adoptei
at one held in onondaga co
resolved, that we, tho delegates repre
senting the two sections of the democratn
party in the county of onondaga, having me
in county convention, and consulted togcthc
in relation to the unfortunate division now ex
isting among the democracy in this count:
and state, and on such consultation, having
ascertained that there is no substantial differ
ence of opinion between us in relation toques
lions of principle, nor sufficient difference o
opinion in relation to questious of expediency
to justify the continued separation of thost
who desire to unite in support of common
principles, have resolved upon the re-union
and re-organization of the democratic party
in this country.
resolved, that in our estimation, slavery,
in its moral, social and political character and
influence, is an evil, and that its introduction
into the territories recently acquired by. our
govenrment, ought not to be permitted.
resolved, that under the federal consti
tution, all power of sovereignty over the ter
ritories prior to their admission as states, and
also the district of columbia, belong to the
people of the united states, and are to be ex
ercised by their representatives in the federal
government.
these resolves are tame enough—inoffen
sive enougli; yet the hunker members of the
convention made many wry faces in the swal
lowing of them. the first resolve asserts
that the two sections of the democratic paity
are the same in principle; and that there is
little difference of opinion in relation to ques
tions of expediency. what did they divide
about, then or have either party come up to
the standard of the other* look at the
hunker resolutions immediately before the
last election, and these, which they now
swallow with so much difficulty, are not u
circumstance to them. the hope of keeping
themselves in office, made the hunkers pro
fess liberality then the expectation of re
trieving their fallen fortunes,and reaping again
the fruits of office, leads the free toilers to
become parties to such an impotent conclnsion
now. the second resolution affirms slavery
to be an evil; [most marvellous discovery
and that its introduction into the territories,
ought not to be permitted. ought not to
be permitted an evil ought not to be per
mitted discovery still more marvellous’
did these gentlemen ever hear of an i?vil that l
ought to be permitted* if they have, they
surely will not fail, for the benefit of humani
ty, to make their discovery known. the
prevailing opinion has hitherto been that no
evil, whicli can by any possibility be prevent
ed, ought to be permuted. \v here and j*ow
have the parties to this resolution been spend
ing their days, that they have just awoke to a
knowledge of this fact the third resolu
tion, however, is doubtleea the one aboul
i which difficulty was prmcipaily experienced,
j it affirms the doctrine that all power over the
district of columbia, and the territories,
previous to their admission into the union as
.states, belongs to the people. the assertion
of this doctrine is dangerous ground for the
i hunkers. if they allow that power over
the territories belongs to the people, they must
also be prepared to grant that any evd which
is likely to find a place in the territories, and
[which the power of the people can prevent, j
ought not to be permitted. aud here is then
[dilemma. it lias been a favorite mode of
shirking the question of preventing the allow- i
ed evil of slavery from being extended over:
the territories, for them to say, with the mis
souri senator, that it is a mere dispute aboul
“goat’s wool”—“slavery cannot be mro
duced into the territories'' it is a creature
of local law”—“and as there is no law in the
territories authorising it* existence, it caanot
constitutionally exist,” &c. this has been j
their course of action, and by it, they
either intentionally or ignorautly —probably!
the former—been for years past playing into
the hands of the slave-power, and furthering
the extension of the sum of all villamea,”
and it payment lot then subserviency, they
hive got an occasional crumb and a smile from
their imperial masters, and the contempt and
disgust <.f all honest men. previous to the
i annexation of texas, slavery crea
ture of local 1m was the erf raised by the
southern annexationist*, and immediately the
northern jackalls chimed in most industri
ously—adding, there 15 no danger of sla
very in texas after the annexation of
texas, what happened’ i*t those who affirm
slavery to be a creature of local law, answer.
so with respect to new mexico and califor
nia. it has been a favorite doomne with th p
democrats of the old school, tint the wilmot
proviso is unnecessary with general cass
and his admirers, that 11 is “unconstitutional,”
and the result of this policy is— wbait why,
simply, that slaveholders are going to cali
fornia with their profkhty in droves, n d
there is now every probability of that territory
fiudine a place ;n the i n;on as a slave state
this result, it is not to be denied, might pos
sibly take place, even were the wilmot pro
viso to become law for slaverv knows no
restraint —it acknowledges no law which is
not framed to favor its perpetual and constant
ly extending dominion but this only show s
how necessary it is for those who trust to
political action for the restriction of the slave
system, to wield the power which ihey pi.a
-i sess, weak and inefficient as it is, for the
i accomplishment of their purpose. if, as they
•ay, the people have all power over the tern
tones of course it is to be expected that the
j people, if their wire-pulling leaders will it
so, will exercise that power for the prevention
of the evil of slaverv. hut wnen will they
will this f w lien their slave-holding masters
will it. nut a minute sooner. i here is not
an atom of faith to be placed in politicians.
they work lor pay, and p>ay they must
have. if they cannot get paid lor doing de
cent work, they will do dirty work for pay.
slavery holds the purse-stnngs. she deals
out the cash. she casts a rough bone now
1 and then to one and another northern dog,
just to keep them from barking at the wrung
passenger, or from baiking at all. this has
been, and is now the policy of slavery, and
by this policy she succeeds in quelling opposi
tion, and in scattering conscientious scruples
to the winds. there seemed to be reason to
i hope, when the free soil party adopted a
separate organization, that they would take
their place as the advance guard of the po
litical friends of freedom. their re-union
1 with the hunkers on tins platform, or on
i any plalform, deals a death-biow to all such
hopes. they must be thereafter, just what
i their party make them. they must go to
1 make up as heretofore the sum total of bahi
-1 more conventions, and lend their hands and
1 their voices in devising cunning and w icked
schemes for the perpetuation and extension
1 of slavery, and the aggrandisement of slave
holders. what a falling off is there, my
countrymen —j. i>.
from tli«‘ louisville democrat.
e give place to the following as an act
of justice to a large denomination of chris
tians. we are always gratified to receive
r a correction lronr such a reliable source as tins
[j is
“messrs. kditors i saw an admission in
i'i your paper last week, which i think is calcu
lated to do a majority of the ministers of the
gospel, in this state injustice. you gavo as
j your opinion, that most of this class of men
i are in favor of the present movement for the
emancipation of the slaves. in this i think
i you were mistaken. the baptist is th,
most numerous denomination in kentuckye
having more communicants than the method
ists and presbyterians united. 1 speak ad
visediy, when i assure you that most of the
baptist preachers are opposed to agitating the
i subject of slaveiy in any way, in the ap
proachirig convention. as an evidence of the
i feeling of our ministry upon this subject—al
though we number several hundred—there
j were only two present at frankfort at the
anti-slavery convention, according to their
published account. as a ministry we are op
posed to mingling in polities. but being ard
ent friends of good order and the interests of
our beloved state, we ate unwilling that any
undue influence should be secured to north
ern fanaticism, or its legitimate offspring,
(anti-slaveryism in kentucky,) by assigning
us a wrong position.
i also understand—and i derive my in
formation from those acquainted with the facts
in the piemises—that the ministry among the
1 reformed, v ho are also a numerous denomi
nation, are generally opposed to the present
wild and unreasonable movement upon the
subject of emancipation.
i feel, sirs, that it is due to the denomina
tion of which i am a member, as well as
necessary to the interest of the cause of truth,
that your attention should be called to the a
bove facts.
hoping that success »will attend every
laudable effort which is made through the
columns ot your valuable paper to thwart the
schemes of the present agitators of slave
ry-
i remain yours, &c.,
a baptist preacher.”
incredible there must surely be 3omo
mistake here. the idea of a man who pre
tends to teach christianity carefully clearing
himself by such a disclaimer as the above,
trom any share in that work which is one the
main objects of the christian system—uamely
the promotion of the brotherhood of man,
seems to be utterly irrational and impossible.
he does this, besides, not for himself only,
but for the entire denomination in kentucky.
“i assure you (says he) that most of the
baptist preachers are opposed to agitating the
subject of slavery, in any way in the ap
proachmg convention and in confirmation
of this statement, he mvj that only two, out
of several hundreds, were present at tin?
frankfort convention. the baptist denotnin,"
anon in kentucky aie therefore the upholders
of slavery. this ‘“baptist preacher,” is
very desirous that they should lose none of
the high honor attaching to their character of
friends of the inanstealiog, woman-whipping,
licentious slaveholder. i«t the baptists ot
kentucky have that honor i it will hang
like a mill-stone around their necks, drag
giog them down to the lowest depths ol in
famy and disgrace. ijo the baptists ol the
.■erth associate with these kentucky breth
ren 1 it they do, they are equally wah them
the 1 1lends of the slaveholder, and the ene
mies of christianity and of man. their claim
to the name of christians is unfounded. they
are no more christians than they arc fire wor
shippers. ijtl them dip, or sprinkle, or what
they will, and call themselves baptists. the
above letter from a baptist preacher, helps
us to a knowledge of what a “baptist'’ a
pan of his creed is, that slavery is right, that
tho present movement on the subject ot
emancipation is wild aud unreasonable, and
that the schemes of the agitators of this
slaveiy question should be thwarted. an
excellent church this/or blatter and the glori
ous company of slavesellers, slavedriver, 
and slave-breeder* within her ample fold
the entire gang "ay find safety, peace, am
comfort for their* souls, without even thi
necessity of penitence. give us heathenism
m shorn med an ism, brahmanism, or some othe
t»m that enforces practical humanity and tin
equality of human rights, in preference t<
christianity—if this baptist preacher and hi
slavery defending cunfrtrrs ate christians. i
their estimation ot it is the true one, it is fi
tor nothing hut “to be trodden under foot o
men.'' despised and rejected. such c'hnsti
an.tv will never renovate tbe world, or maki
men better. away with it j. d.
meeting of the (doted c itizens
rochester, july ilsi, i*l9.
at a meeting f the colored citizen* o
rochester at the school house on sophti
m. on the evening of july “»?h, mk javjxi
>hahp was called to the hair and josisi
finsuv appointed secretary. ihi
l ‘liairinan in a pertinent manner stateu th<
object of the meeting. alter which a com
mittee was appointed to draft resolutions ex
pressing the view* ot the meeting. ihe
chairman then appointed messrs. j. p. mor
kin, j« st-ph .stanliv, and d. li. kav as
that committee.
the committee then submitted the follow
j., j ieamble and hesolutions to the meeting
for consideration.
whereas at the last celebration held in the
city ot rochester on the ist ot august i*-!*,
it was decided by a majority of the meeting
cabed lor the put pose that the next celebra
iioii be held in the city ot buffalo, which reso
lution w e all heartily concurred in. but in
consequence of the prevalence of that malig
nant disease, the cholera in buffalo pru
dence dictates to us that we as responsible
beings and tre duty we owe to ourselves and
families we should do nothing that may tend
to jeopardise our health as well as our lives.
resolved, that the first of august the an
niversary ot tbe day that gave j rt'dotn to
*oo,ooo ot our race, is a day ever to be held
m grateful remembrance by all lovers ot free
dom.
resolved, that iri as much as the city of
buffalo lias been is.ted by so dreadful and
fatal an epidemic as tin: cholera, we the citi
zens of rochester conceive it to he out duly
to decline the invitation to attend the anniver
sary of the emancipation ot the b. i. on
the first of august to be field at that city.
resolved, that we unhesitatingly believe
that the assemblage of large crowds has a
t jndency to increase the disease which is now
prevailing.
resolved, that we conceive it totally inex
pedient as well as pernicious to attend the
forthcoming celebration, for in so doing, we
are jeopardizing not only our lives but those
of our families.
resolved, that we lender our sincere re
gret to the committee of management in not
being represented by a delegation on so im
portant occasion. but we do assure those
noble and philanthropic spirits who shall
assemble o:i that glorious day, that our hearts
and our souls are with them.
resolved, that we further believe it our
indispcnsible duty to recommend to the com
mittee of management the propriety of defer
tng their celebration lor another year, owing
to the fatality of the epidemic which is now
invading the whole country.
resolved, that a copy of the proceedings
of the meeting be sent to the committee of
management for their consideration.
resolved, that these proceedings be pub
lished in the north star.
.losspit stanley, see.
c'omtno oi t. —the new lisbon aurora
says, that since the iast meeting of the old
school general assembly of the presbyterian,
church, the congregation at clarkson, in this,
county, is about u> lose several of its promi-;
nent members on account of the pro-slavery
position which that church continues to oc-j
cupy the probability is those who with
draw will attach themselves to the free pres
byterian church. hugh.
cholera does not spread in this city. dur
ing the week, there have nut been, on an
average, more than one case daily. jhe
exertions of the city officers to keep the
streets in good order, are commendable, and
'rcnerally successful.
in buffalo, the epidemic has latterly been
i .ther on the increase. the report for ed
i.esday wa9, that there hail been, in the 04
limits previous, -lb easts —11 death*, and the
board adjourned before all the reports were
received.
new york, july the board repoit 131
eases —39 deaths.
philadelphia, same date, -11 cases,m deaths
in st. louis and cincinnati, hope* are en
t'trained that the worst is past.
“it is very certain that nothing so much as
disunion would secure the destruction of
southern institutions.’’ —richmond ivi.)
whig.
this is the testimony id one of the leading
presses of trginia, and is supported, we be
lieve, by the entire .south, save only mr.
calhoun and his squad, who want to dissolve
the union for the puiposc of gratifying fils
personal ambition, and who are so fanatical
as to believe that the slaveholding -states
could sustain themselves in a 'separate con
federacy. the whig is right beyond a doubt,
and therefore we say, ijomi with the l hion!
tin'll
mrs. jv^is.—a letter from dr. judson,
at burmah. dated march lslh, says, that
mrs. j. has been very ill, and still continues
su and what is worse, 1 have serious and
dreadtul apprehensions u she will never be
iy “better. in a pos-tscripi added march “3d,
be says “mrs. j. i- rather better but he
indicates no abatement of ins fears.
from monrovia. —the new york sun
publishes a letter from monrovia, afuca, da
te 1 may “20.
the fulled states ship bambridge, com,
slaughter, arrived at monrovia on the 17th
may, having encounterd touch had weather.
hfftcers and crew well.
the slave trade was still unchecked, i lie
english had blockaded gallina*, and had
burnt down the slave establishment on shore.
the british hermaphrodite brig, alert de
m'ned a suppo*,ed slaver becalmned, and »em
out her boats to board her. a fight ensued,
jn which the boats were beaten off and the
first lieutenant and master were killed.
thomas l matt'itall has taken tin
stump to favor of emancipation in kentucky
lie came hi contact a short time since with j
pro-slavery clergyman, named john l. \n al
ler, who sud in a speech that he did not de
*uie any change in the mural and intellectua
condition of kentucky. marshall replied
lie did not doubt the rev. gentleman's *ui
eerily, lor if fie desired an improvement ii
the morals of his fellow citizens, he uouh
not have left the pulpit to become a pio-sla
very, political candidate; and if the mwieclua
couditoo of the people were improved, the;
would no longei tolerate such a member a
him
ktv. .s. j. may —ln a reply to an mvi
tatioii'of the committee of arrangement* a
syracuse to attend tbe celebrattou of th<
fourth this gentleman, among other thing
suv*,“i have no objection to a processioi
civic banners, and a bapndof music, no
in a feast of good tbiogs, and songs an<
mirth, but* display of murderous 4 weai»ons
and of men practisingartaj of war
communications.
from our english o'<>rnr?poodeut.
ma'ichistei, july 3, 1894.
*mv dear faitvd the “daily new*”
of june 2s winds up its vituperative com
ment* on the opposition of the bishop of
oxford to the bill for admitting the jews to
parliament thus
“shade of wilberfotce' listen to this man,
\our son, urging hi* fellow-beings to rest
satisfied with a degraded position in the land
of their birth with a political serfdom among
the rations of the free' yes; the father
raised the negro from bondage on account of
color, the son would consign the jew to serf
dom on account ot his creer/'”
the concurrence of this apostrophe w ith
my remarks in a former leiter, both in
thought and expression is singular. the only
d.fferenee is, that the whole of 'the dissen
tients from the established church, were ad
duced by me, but this journal confines itself
io the jew.
a few days ago, 1 noticed in the “man
chester examiner” an extract from the
“north star,” pungent with caustic irony
upon the demeanor of the denizens of new
york, towards two english ladies, for lean
ing upon the arm of mr. dul'c.lass, which
two ladies, 1 presume, were my lugbminded
friends from charles square. what must
have been the emotions of these ladies in
witnessing such a scene, in such a land,
calling itself enlightened and free 1 unpre
pared they were for such an exhibition by
any similar outrage in “paltry london.’
englishmen have their prejudices; hut in
england no one is exposed to insult for any
physical peculiarity, except from the rude,
uncultivated class, >nd the american, after
this manifestation, cannot escape lroin being
placed in the ranks of these.
in france, one, or more men'of color sit in
the legislative assembly.
1 remember reading, that, in the interior j
of africa, when a white man was seen for j
the first time, he was spurned, for in their
eyes, his unseemly hue was the result of a j
loathsome disease; and who are to be the
arbiters as to the comparative comeliness ui
tinge! certain it is, that the larger propor
tion of the human races have a sable corn- j
plexion and to affirm the inferiority of this j
large majority, is an indirect impeachment oi
the wisdom and equity ol their reator.
the struggle of the oppressed against their
oppressors, still agitates the w hole of eu-
rope.
the noble hungarians at least keep the
austrians and their auxiliary cossacks at
bay; and faithful reports, 1 doubt not,
would show that the latter have been signally
discomfited.
in w hat an attitude stands 1 ranee beiore
the walls of home! kepulsed by the horn-
ans, repudiated by the pope and his allies,
and reprobated by england, her proceedings
are inexplicable and atrocious.
the doings of the french in italy, and of
the americans in the southern states, tend
to bring republicanism into disrepute. dp j
pression is doubly odious, w hen perpetrated
by the bawlers about “liberty, equality, and,
fraternity.”
in england, aristocracy, abetted by the 1
bishops, have slammed the door of parlia- j
ment in the face of the children of jacob, j
baron rothschild acts with wisdom and j
spirit; and the cry of the persecuted will
stir up the people to compel their emancipa-!
tion.
who »re they that denounce them 1 ho
wis he that said—“ father, forgive them 1
how doggedly do the lords spiritual and j
temporal refuse to learn wisdom in the school
of experience! the same parties refused,
year after ye3t, to relieve the dissenters horn
the impious test act. the same parties,
with the pertinacity of bigots, opposed stout
ly to the last the emancipation of the roman
ists. they w ere driven from their entrench-;
rnents, and conquered by reason and justice
but in spite of these successive defeats, they
persist in then bigoted fight, exposing them- j
selves to a third inevitable overthrow.
1 notice the walls of manchester proclaim j
the departure of the magnificent 1 sarah
sands.” oh what a sad and extraordinary
calamity has befallen the emigrant ship in the
wide atlantic. to be run into and sunk by
the europa steamer, sending 140 human be-
their account in a moment' jn a
narrow sea, such a casualty is not infrequent,
but for two specks to came into collision on
the ocean is as remaikable as mournful.
noises should be incessant in a fog.
lord john manners opposes rothschild.
to-day’s account by telegraph gives about
100 for the former to 500 for the latter.
e. b.
reported lssi krection jn hi ssi a. 1 he
augsburg gazelle of june 16, sa\s that the
russians guards, who were on their march to
hungary, have suddenly come to a halt, and
are returning to petersburg bv forced
marches. the poles say that an insurrection
bas broken out both at st. petersburg ami
moscow, letters from the south ot russia
state that a severe famine is prevailing there,
and that many of the inhabitants ate dying of
starvation and scurvy. so severe is the dis
tress, lhm the emperor has been obliged to
forego his late conscriptions of soldiers from
tins part of the kingdom.
kossuth has sent a special messenger, in
forming the austrians and russians that
for every hungarian hung, an austrian
general shall share the same fate.
ot r streets. —wo are happy to note in
our perambulations through the city, that
there is a very marked increase of animation
visible in all direction*. among the busi
ness portions of our community, the bustle,
the hurrying to and fro, the moving of carts,
drays, and vehicles of all kinds, from carria
ges to wheel-barrows which so surely indi
i cate lhe improvement in business is plainly to
be seen. the deathlike silliness that has
alune reigned tor near eight or ten weeks, has
departed, and bustle and activity now indi
cate the decrease of the epidemic arid the re-
i newed sway of the almighty dollar.— cm.
i (.!/ah'.
1
singular moot oi keeping fish alive
—those worthy individuals who take delight
in izaak w altoti s art, and who, moreover,
are in the habit of sending the result of their
sports to their epicurean acquaintance*, must
learn an indispensable piece of information,
viz.: bow to keep fish fresh. this may be
done by soaking the soft part of bread in
brandy, and inseitmg it into the gill of tht
,i'ish while it w yet alive, and at ter wadi
sprinkling it over gently with brandy. tliui
i prepared, and carefully packed in straw thr
fioh will keep alive ten or twelve days, as mat
i be proved by putting it in fresh water at tl»
1 end of that time, when, after a few hours
immersion, it will recover trom its proiraeter
djuiikciioeaa.— litiiwy uax. jam
the overland emigrant*.
the onannafi tim's hu a letter dated
may it, from fort childs, 300 mile* west of'
independence. we make the following ex
tracts
on the 10th we arrired at the junction oft
st. joseph’s road, and, in the course of the
morning, we saw »o many wagons that we
thought we must lighten our loads and get in
advance of the tide of emigration or our
mules and oxen must suffer in consequence of
short feed therefore, abtut noon, we stop-}
ped and held a meeting, arid passed a resolu-
ttori appointing a committee to examine all;
the wagons and throw out and abandon every
thing that was not absolutely necessity ac-;
cording!v, we left behind the wagon that we
purchased for carrynig our corn, which com
$2lo, blacksmiths' tools, consisting of anvil,
huge, sledge-hammers, ac., about 200
mules' shoes, several extra axle-trees, and
came very near leaving the coining apparatus,
m<-at of the company being in favor of so
doing, it being very heavy we also changed*
the sugar, nee, ac., from boxes into bags.*
while we were engaged in this business, a,
train of 50 wagons passed, i hey reported
that they had passed between 600 and too
wagons—some they left dt r?t. joseph’s and
that a great many of them had to throw away
apart of their loading, almost every one
loading ton heavy. one train they passed
had abandoned 1200 lbs, ot bacon, among
their things. so many trains have started, j
that fears are entertained that they canuot all
get through, as there will not be grass enough
for the animals this and the anxiety to get
to the gold diggings as soon as possible, are
the causes of property being abandoned.
among the wagons that passed us, was one
train from cieorgia. with a carriage or hack
containing a man and his wife. that train
also had several slaves with them. our wa
gons are made too heavy arid strong, there
are none like them other trains have just
su'*h as come out of market at cincinnati,'
mariv of them poorer we might have saved
$6oo, and haj wagons move suited to the
lri p;
'lhere are two companies of regulars,!
mounted riflemen, stationed here for the pro- 1
tection of the encampments. i stopped at
the store aud found it crammed full—there
being two or three trains eacamped near by.
among them is one of thirty wagons from
alton, 111. almost every art.de can he had
at an advance of from 200 to .‘5oo per cent,
over prices in the l’nited states. the sale
of liqitor yesterday, was piohibited by an or
der from the officer of the fort. one man
told me that he bought previous to the order
being given, 15 gallons at 30c., and been
since offered $m per gallon. the houses,
consisting of about a dozen, are built of tur.
or sod cut from the prairies, having a frame
of wood inside, wood being very scarce—
the nearest on this side of the platte being
thirty miles. we have been all the forenoon
picking up what wood we cooked our dinner
with, finding it, s ick and chip at a time,
from old encampments.
we first came in sight of the platte yester
day, and struck it at the head of the “crande
island,” as it is called, being an island 90
miles long. near us are encamped a wagon
and six men, mormons, j ist from ‘alifornia.
i saw a specimen of the “dustit is in
scales, about the size of a large pin’s head
hammered out. according to their account,
there is enough for all who go; but like some
other places, it takes hard word to procure it.
the specimen i saw weighed just ten dollars,
pure gold—this was all they had convenient.
i asked them how much they had made. they
said they had dug until they were satisfied,
and had all they wanted, which must be a
large amount, if they are as greedy as some
of us. one of them told me tho most he
ever made in the shortest tune was btso in
half a day he said they averaged $l5o per
day apiece.
routes to california. —all land routes
have their troubles. a letter from chihuahua,
mexico, to the st. louis republican, says:
1 advise all your friends who contemplate
an overland route for california, not to at
tempt any other than that trom st. louis, via
independence or other points on the missouri;
for i do assure you, every route through
mexico is attended with all sorts of difficulties,
independent of the indians, who are prowling
on every part of the indian country. on the
4th, they killed twenty-three of their mexi
can brethren. they stampeded our animals
at.il succeeded in running off many. i should
prefer the missouri route even in the
winter.
a despatch from st. louis of the 3d inst.j
has some better news for the emigrants
viz.
by the arrival of a trader we have dates
from bent’s fort to the 26th ult. the late
reports received, via new-orleans, ot indian
hostilities in santa fe are said to be unfound- j
ed in truth, companies of emigrants and,
traders were met daily along the route trom
independence. from all indications the chol
era had entirely disappeared from among
them, and they were generally in the enjoy- 1
ment of good health. capt. carr’s company
of dragoons were met at plum-bute on the
13th, and several companies of infantry at
little arksansaaon the 15th.
jiomcegpathii truatmentof cholera.
iu cincinnati the success of the homoeo
pathic treatment of cholera lias been such,
that tne physicians of that school, it is sup
posed, have not lost a single patient. how
ever, in about four hundred cases ot cholera j
j treated by them, they have lost only lour.|
allopathy has lost, according to the report ol
the board of health, nearly one hall of the j
cases treated by that empiucal system. t iie
board of health of that city was composed,
as we understand, almost entirely of allopath
ic physicians. '1 he homeopathic physicians
declined lepoitmg tlie:r cases to them but
made their reports through the daily times
the official city paper. the allopaths report
ed to the board of health, which was alo
published in the times. the success ot the
one, and the failure of the other, w hich was
made most clearly to appear, had the effect
i to awaken bad feelings among ihe allopaths,
j and several suits were commenced against
homoeopaths, lot a breach of the ordinance
in not reporting to the board ol health.
“the ordinance assesses a fine of from 5 to
500 dollars h*r neglect to report all cases ol
i malignant disease. it was pioved that the
(cholera, when rightly treated was not malig
nant, ami the suits were dismissed, aruid “the
shouts ol the people,” and the health officer
was glad to escape the indignation of an ex
cited jtopulace. the general impression is.
tlrat it was not the cholera, but allopathic
practice that killed the people. we learn
from a communication from dr. b. w.
1 richmond, published in the republican and
i whig «*f chardon, ohio, that the city council
of cincinnati by a vole ot 20 to 13 passed a
resolution, to re-organtse the board of health,
and introduce into it physicians ofthe homo*o
pathic school. am. journal of homaopalhy.
prison discipline —there is a jail in one
of the counties of this christian state ol
massachusetts, where the treatment of the
criminals confined is such as to shame the
prison discipline ot the moot baibatous times.
not many months ago a man w as confined in
i under sentence of death, and the jailor
probably thinking that tuhd not much matter,
as the prisoner was to be hung so soon,
whether he was well fid or not, often neglect
i e d to furnish a sufficient supply ot food. the
prisoner was verv naturally exasperated at
such treatment, and made frequent appeals to
i ,h« turnkey for more food but as the turn
i kev had no authority m the premises, he rc
ftrred the matter to the jailer. accordingly
i the jailer paid a visit to the prisoner’s cell,
k j and after listening to hu* complaints about the
p food assured him with an oath, that le should
r nave no mure, for the reason-what think
e you, penile reader fur the reason he
(the prisoner) had groxen so —fat already
d that t r axiuld toil the aounty at least a douar
more far u rujtt to hang him uith. hfc
whit shall we think ot the appointing pow
er, tint keeps such men in a station which be
constantly disgraces by such treatment aa
this, of the unfortunate beings with whom
he comes is daily contact* christian citi
sen.
evil coss£>h'ksces s*oxi>«.—the
wide-spread habit of snwktng has uot yet
had due medical attention paid to rt and its
consequences. it is only by two or three
years’ observation, that dr. laycock has be
come fully aware of the great changes induced
in the system by the use of tobacco, and of
the varied and obscure forma of disease to
which especially excessive smoking gave on
gin. he proceeded to state them as they
were met with in the pharyngeal mucous
membrane, the stomach, the lungs, the heart,
the brain, and the nervous system.
the tobacco consumed by habitual smokers,
varies flora half an ounce to twelve ounces
per week the usual quantity from two to
three ounces. inveterate cigar smokers will
consume from four to five dozen per week.
the first morbid result is an inflammatory
condition of the mucous membrane, of the
lips and tongue, then the tonsils and pharynx
sutler, the mucous membrane becoming dry
and congested. if the thorax be well
examined, it will be found slightly swollen,
with congested veins meandering over the
surface, and here and there a streak ot mu
cous. the action of tobacco smoking on the
heart is depressing, and some individuals,
who feel it in this organ more than others,
complain of an uneasy sensation about the
left nipple, a distressed feeling, not amount
ing to faintness, but allied to it. the action
of the heart is obseived to be feeble and
irregular. an uneasy feeling is also expen-1
enced in or beneath the pectoral muscles, and,
oftener on the right side than the left. on
the brain, the use of tobacco appears to di
minish the rapidity of cerebral action, and
check the flow of ideas through the mind. it!
diffeis from opium and henbane, and rather
excites to wakefulness, like green tea, than
composes to sleep: induces a dreaminess, 1
which leaves no impression on the memory,
leaving a great susceptibility, indicated by a
trembling oi the hands and irritability of tem
per. such are secondary results of smoking.
so are blackness of teeth and gum-boils.
there is also a sallow paleness of the com
plexion, an irresoluteness of disposition, a
w-ant of life and energy, and in constant
smokers who do not drink, a tendency to!
pulmonaiy phthisis. dr. wright, of birm-j
ingham, in a communication to the author,!
fully corroborates his opinions and both
agree that smoking produces gastric disorders,
cough, inflammatory atfections of the heart,!
lowness of the spirits, and, in short, is very
injurious to the tespiratory, alimentary, and
nervous system. —english library gazette.
chemical analysis of tea. —in the
memoirs of the london chemical society,!
there is an interesting paper of warrington j
on the analysis of lea, in which he states:
that the lias not only removed the whole of
the coloring matter, or glazing, from green;
tea, but he has been able to analyze the mat-'
ter removed, and prove it, by chemical evi
dence, to consist of prussian blue and gypsum
principally. so that in fact the drinkers of
manv qualities of green tea, as it comes to
the english market, indulge in a beverage of
coinese paint, and might imitate the mixture
by dissolving prussian blue and plaister of
paris in hot water. the chinese do not
drink this painted tea they only sell it.
more news from the plains. a train
of, wagons, under command of lie burget,!
arrived at fort kearney on the evening ofj
the 10th, direct from grand island and!
fort childs. they report considerable sick-;
ness and distress among the emigrants. a
number of companies have lost neaily all i
the cattle by stampedes and by being stolen;
by the indians, therefore they have been j
compelled to desert theii wagons and what
ever goods they could not pack upon the
rattle that were left. t t p to the first day of
june there had passed grand island 2,500
wagons and 15,000 people. they were
counted by a man appointed for the purpose.
after passing grand island they met 2,000
wagons more, and for three successive days
the roads looked as though a political conven
tion was assembling. at any time, our in
formant stated, he could sit upon his mule
and count 100 wagons. the interpreter at j
fort childs says that, in all probability,!
7,000 emigrants would be in the mountains 1
at one time, without sufficient grazing for j
their cattle. a train of wagons, composed
of two companies from virginia and ohio,
some indians having stolen a few of their
cattle the evening previous, they started in
pursuit, and having found them, a fight en
sued, in which 5 indians were killed and a
number wounded. all things considered, the
emigrants are progressing upo i their long
and tedious journey as well as could be ex
pected —nearly 2,500 have returned.— st.
lotus i mon, isth.
father mathew at work.—on thurs-i
day father mathew commenced giving the
i pledge to his countrymen in the basement of
the catholic church in court-st., brooklyn, j
dense crowds pressed upon him. he ad
dressed them in an affectionate manner, on
ihe benefiits of total abstinance, and the value:
of the pledge. about thousand took the
pledge from him, in groups of from fivw to j
twenty and thirty. it reminded one of the'
scenes of limerick and w aterford in 1840.
he continued his work through yeatetday,.
i and will go on giving the pledge .there until,
tuesday, it is calculated that from 3,000 to:
10.000 m that city will take the pledge. a. y
tribune.
in blackwood’s magazine, is an arti
cle entitled ke kevenant, purporting t<
be written by a man who has beei
hanged and is now alive. the writei
confesses that he was guilty of the ac
for which he suffered—forgerv, am
states the particulars of his arrest
committal to newgate for trial, and hi
conviction ol the crime at the old baile;
sessions for lie then proceed
to describe w hat were ins sensations
after receiving the awful sentence o
death. after painting, in touching col
ors. the interview he had with hhzabetl
clare, to w hom he w as strongly attach
ed, he thus proceeds with his narra
tive:
4 lt was four o’clock in the afternooi
when elizabeth left me; and when slv
departed, it seemed as if my busines
in this world was at an end. 1 couf
have wished, then and there to hav
died on the spot; 1 had done my las
act, and drank my last draught in lilt
but as the twilight drew on, my cel
was cold and damp, and the eveninj
was dark and gloomy; and i had n
fire nor any caudle, although it was i
the month of january, nor much co\
ering to warm me, and by degrees m
spirits weakened, and my heart sunk a
the desolate wretchedness of ever
thing around me; and gradually lo
what i write now shall he the truth—
the thoughts of klizabeth, and wha
would be her fate, began to give wa
before a sense of my own situation
this was the tirst time —l cannot tci
the reason why—that my inind ha
ever fixed itsell upon tlie trial that
had, within a few hours, to go through
and as 1 reflected on it, a terror sprea
over me, almost in an instant, a
though it were that my sentence wa
just pronounced, and that j had nc
known, really and seriously, that i wa
to die before: i had eaten nothing fo
twenty-four hours. 1 here was tood
which a religious gentleman who visit
ed me had sent from his own table, be
1 could not taste it, and when i looke
at it, strange fancies came over me
it was dainty food, not such as wa
served to the prisoners in the jail. 1
was sent to me because i was to di
to-morrow, and i thought of the beast
of the field and the fowls of the air
that w ere pampered for slaughter,
j fflt that my own sensations were nc
as they ought to be at this time, and
j believed that, for a while i was insane
i a sort of dull humming noise, that
could not get rid of, like the buzzing c
bees, sounded in my cars. and thoug
it was dark, sparks of light seemed t
dance before my eyes, and i coul
recollect nothing. 1 tried to say rn_
prayers, but could only recollect
i word here and there, and then it seem
ed to ine as if these were blaspherniei
that i was uttering; i don’t know wha
they were, i cannot tell what i said
i and then on a sudden, i felt as thougl
all this terror was useless, and that
would not stay there to die, and
i jumped up, and wrenched at the bar
\of my cell window with a force lha
bent them, for 1 felt as it 1 had th
strength of a lion. and i felt all ove
the lock of my door, and tried the doo
with my shoulder, though 1 knew i
was plated with iron, heavier than tha
;of a church; and i groped about th
very walls, and into the corners of nr
dungeon—though 1 knew very well, i
i had my senses, that it was all of soli
stone three feet thick, ami that it
could have passed through a crevic
smaller than the eye of a needle, 1 ha
no chance of escaping. and, in th
midst of all this exertion, a faintnes
came over me as it i had swullowe'
poison; and i had just power to reel t
to the bed place, where 1 sank down i
a swoon; but this did not last—for in
head swam around, and the cell seem
ed to turn round with me, and 1 dream
ed—between sleeping and waking
that it was midnight, and that elizabeti
had come back as she promised, an
that they refused to admit her. an
i thought it snowed heavily, and tha
the streets were covered with it, as i
i with a white sheet, and that i saw he
dead—lying in the fallen snow, and i
the darkness at the prison gate.
when 1 came to myself, 1 w as strug
gling and breathless. in a minute o
two, 1 heard st. sepulchre’s clod
strike ten; and knew it was a dreai
that 1 had had. the chaplain of th
prison came without my sending. h
exhorted me solemnly “to think n
more of cares and troubles in thi
world, but to bend my thoughts uno
that to come, and to try to reconcil
my soul to heaven; trusting that m
sins, though they were heavy, unde
1 repentance, i might have hope ol mer
cy.” when he had gone, i did fee
myself, for a little while, more collec
ted; and i sat down again on the bed
and tried seriously to commune witl
i myself, and prepare myself for my fate
1 recalled to my mind that 1 had but i
few hours more, at all events to live—
that there was no hope on earth of es
capitig —and that it was at least bette
j that i should die decently like a man
l then 1 tried to recollect all the tale
i that i had ever heard about death bj
hanging —that it was said to be thi
sensation of a moment —to give no pail
—to cause the extinction of life instant
aneously —and so on, to twenty othei
strange ideas. by degrees, my heat
began to wander and grow unmanage'
able. j put my hands tightly to in)
throat, as though to try the sensatior
;of strangling—then i felt my arms ai
the place where the cord would be
tied. i went through the fastening!
of the rope—the tying of the hands to*
getlier; the thing that i felt most averse
to was the white cap mufhed over iny
eyes and face if 1 could avoid that,
the rest was not so very horrible? in the.
midst of these fancies, a numbness
seemed to creep over my senses. the
giddines* that 1 had fell gave way to a
dull stupor, which lessened the pain
that my thoughts gave me, though i
still went on thinking. the church
clock rang midnight; 1 was sensible ol
j the sound, but a reached me indistinct
ly—as though coining through many
closed doors, or irom a tar distance.
by and by, i saw the objects before iny
mmd less and less clearly— then only
partially —they were gone altogether. 1
fell asleep
1 slept until the hour of execution.
it w as seven o'clock on the ne\t morn
ing, when a knocking at the door of
my cell awoke ine. i heard tha sound
as though in my dreams, lor some mo
ments before l was fully awake; and
my first sensation was only the dislike
which a weary man feels at being
roused; i was tired* and i wished to
dose on in a minute after, the bolts
on the outside of rev dungeon were
drawn; a turnkey, carrying a small
lamp, follow ed by the ma-ter of the jail
and the chaplain, entered. i looked
up; a shudder like the shock of elec
tricity—like a plunge into a bath of ice
—ran through me; one glance was
sufficient. sleep had gone as though 1
1 had never slept—even as i never was
to sleep again—l was conscious ot my
situation! “r "said the master to
me, in a subdued, but steady tone, "it
is time for you to rise." the chaplain
asked me how i had passed the night,
and proposed that we join in prayer.
1 gathered myself up, and remained
sealed on the side of the bed-place.
mv teeth chattered, and my knees
i knocked together, in despite ol my sell.
it was barely daylight yet; and, as the
cell door stood open, 1 could see into
the small paved court beyond; the
morning was thick and gloomy, and a
slow, but settled rain was coming
down. “it is halt* past 1 o clock
r said the master, i just mutter
ed an entreatv to be left alone till the
last moment. i had thirty minutes to
live. “i then tried to make anothei
observation when the master was
leaving the cell; but this time i could
not get the words out; my tongue
stuck to the root ot my mouth, and in\
speech seemed gone; 1 made two des
perate efforts, but it would not do 1
could not utter. w hen they lett me, i
never stirred from my place on the bed.
1 was benumbed with the cold, prob
ably from the sleep, and at the unac
customed exposure, and i sat couched
together, as it were, to keep mvsell
ii warmer, with my arms folded across
i iny breast, and my head hanging down,
shivering; and my body felt as it it
j were such a weight to me, that i was
unable to move it, or stir. ihe day
was breaking, yellow and heavy, anc
the light stole by degrees into my dun-
i geon, showing me the damp stone
walls, and desolate, dark paved floor:
and strange as it was, with all l conic
do, i could not keep myself from notic
mg these trilling things, though perdi
tion was coming upon me the very ne.v
moment. 1 noticed the lamp which the
turnkey luul lett on the lloor, ane
j which was burning dimly, with a long
wick, being clogged with the chill ane
•j bad air, and 1 thought to myself—ever
at that moment —that it had not beei
trimmed since the night before. ane
i looked at the hare, naked, iron bee
i frame that 1 sat on; and the heavy
studs on the floor of the dungeon; ane
at the scrawls and writings upon the
wall, that had been drawn by formei
prisoners; and 1 put my hand to mj
own pulse and it was so low that i coule
hardly count it. 1 could not feel—
though i tried to make myself feel it:
that 1 was going to die. in the inidsi
j of this, i heard the chimes of the chape
clock begin to strike; and 1 thought
1 lord take pity on me, a wretch! i
could not he three quarters after sever
.1 yet! the clock went over the three
1 quarters; it chimed the fourth quarter
j and struck eight. they were in rm
.‘cell before 1 perceived them. they
found me in the place, and in the pos
ture, as they had left me.
j what i have farther to tell w ill lie ir
a very small compass; my recollections
are very minute up to this point, bui
not at all so close as to what occurrei
afterwards. 1 scarcely recollect very
clearly how i got from that cell to tin
i press-room. 1 think two little wither
ed men, dressed in black, supportei
i me. i know 1 tried to rise when 1 saw
the master and his people come into mj
j dungeon; but i could not.
lu the press-room were the tw<
miserable wretches tiiat were to sufl'ei
i with me; they were bound with theii
1 arms behind them, and their hands to
1 gether; and were lying upon a bench
hard by, until i was ready. a meagre
rf looking old man, with thin white hair
•j who was reading to one of them, canu
i up and said something i hat w<
would embrace,*’ —i did not distinctly
hear what it was.
1 the great difficulty that 1 had wai
to keep from falling. i had though
i that these moments would have beei
all of fury and horror, but 1 felt noth
ing of this; hut only a weakness, a:
though my heart —and the very 1100
5 on which 1 stood —was sinking unde:
i ine. 1 could just muke a motion, tha
the old white haired man should leavi
r 1 me; ami someone interfered and sen
him aw ay. the pinioning of my hand
and arms was then finished; and
l heard an officer whisper to the chap
lain that “all was ready.” as we pas
sed out, one of the men in black held
t glass of water to my lips: but 1 couh
not swallow.
i this was the last moment —but om
—of full perception, that 1 bad in life
1 remember our beginning to move for
ward through the long-arched passag
es which led from the press-room t<
i the scaffold. 1 saw the lamps tha
were still burning, for the dayiigh
never entered there; 1 heard the quid
tolling of the bell, and the deep voici
of the chaplain, leading as he w alkei
before us:
“i am the resurrection and the life
saitli the lord, he that believeth in me
though he were dead, shall live. am
though after mv skin, worms destroy
this body, yet in my hesh shall i set
lod!”
“it was the funeral service—the or
der of the grave—the office for thost
that were senseless and dead, over us,
the quick and the living.”
i felt once more—and saw i fell
the transition from these dim, close,
and hot, lamplighted subterraneous
passages, to the open platform, and
steps at the foot of the scaffold, and to
day, 1 saw the immense crowd llacken
j ing the whole area of the streets below
me 4 the windows of the shops and
houses opposite, to the fourth story,
choked with ga/ers. i saw' st. sepul
chre’s church through the yellow fog
in the distance; had heard the pealing
of its bell.
1 recollect the cloudy misty morning,
the wet lay upon the scaffold—-the huge
idark mass of buildings, the prison it
self, that rose beside, and seemed to
cast a shadow over u« —the bold, fresh
breeze that, as i merged from it; broke
upon my face. 1 see it &w now—the
whole horrible inndacajm’ is before me.
the scaffold—use ram—the faces of the
multitude—the people clinging to the
house tops—the smoke that bent heavi- t
ly downwards from the chimneys —the i
wagon filled with women, staring at the
inn-vard opposite —the hoarse low roar
that'ran through the gathering crowd
as we appeared. 1 never saw many
objects at once, so plainly ami distinct
ly in all my life, as at that one glance
but it lasted onlv lor an instant.
from that look, and from that in
stant, all that followed is a blank.
the prayers of the chaplain ot the
fastening of the fatal noose—ol the
putting on the cap, ot which l had so
much dislike—of my actual execution
and death, i have not the slightest at
om of recollection. hut that 1 know
such occurrences must have taken
place, 1 should not have the smallest
consciousness that they ever did so. 1
read in the daily newspapers an ac
count of my behavior at the sea hold
that i conducted mvselt decently, but
with firmness! of my death—that i
seemed to die almost without a strug
gle. of any of these events i have not
been able, by any exertion, to recall
the most distant remembrance. with
the first view of the scaffold, all my
recollection ceases. the next circum
j .stance which—to my —perception—
seems to follow, is the having awoke,
as if from sleep, and found myselt in a
bed, in a handsome chamber, with a
gentleman (as i first opened my eyes')
looking attentively at me. i had my
senses perfectly, that l had been re
prieved at the scatlold, and had faint
ed. after i knew the truth, i thought
i had an imperfect recollection of hav
ing found, or fancied, myself-—as in a
dream —in some strange place, lying
naked, and with a mass of figures float
ing about before me; but this idea cer
tainly never presented itself to me un
til l was informed of the fact that had
occurred.
the accident to which i owe my ex
istence wili have been divined! my
condition is a strange one! i am a
man; and 1 possess certificate
both°of death and burial. 1 know that
a collin filled with stones, and with my
own name upon the plate, lips buried
in the churchyard of st. andrew’s llol
born: i saw from a window, the un
dressed hearse that carried it; 1 was
witness to my own funeral. these are
strange things to see. my damages,
however, and i trust, my crimes, are
over forever. thanks to the bounty ol
the excellent individual, whose benevo
lence has recognized the service which
he did me for a claim upon him. lam
married to the woman, whose happiness
and safety proved my last thought —sc
long as reason remained with me —in
dying. and lam about to sail on s
j fair voyage, which is only a sorrowtu
one—that it parts me forever troin my
benefactor.”
a poet in a plci-sty. ttch'li'dru
position. —whittier gave early indica
tions of poetical power. several ot hi:
juvenile poems having found their way
into the newspapers and magazines ol
i the day, attracted the attention of some
literary gentlemen, who appreciated the
merit of the productions, and resolvei
to make their author a visit, to offei
their assistance in introducing the
“quaker poet” to literary notoriety
accordingly they took a conveyance
that soon set them down in the pictur
esque town ofweare, (n. h.) the resi
dence ot’ the young poet. w ith some
difficulty they found the dwelling o
whittier, and were ushered into the
best room of the house by the m>t her.
to whom they made known their desire
to see her son.
all this time, young whittier was
j working away at the certainly rathei
i unpoetical business of cleaning out the
pig-sty. he plied his shovel w ith right
good will, totally unconscious of the
i honor that awaited him. judge of his
astonishment when lizzy, his sister
came running from the house, and in-
i formed him “that it was full of very
great people who were waiting to set
j him.” “what shall i dor” cried tin
i young poet in agonv. —“run, lizzy
and get my boots while i wash me ii
the brook.” the boots were brought
j but the bare wet feet of whittier re
t fused to enter. at length after a dea
,'oftugging, one was drawn on, but, o
horrors! the other would not go on
1 neither would the first come off!
“a pretty looking spectacle i slial
make for their inspection,” murinuret
t whittier as with one boot in his bant
and the other on his foot, he entered
the house. rut in a short time, the
j flattering words of his visitors made
him quite forget the awkwardness ol
his attire! —madison fomuj visitor.
how to enlarge vegetables. —a
i vast increase of food may obtained by
managing judiciously and systematical
ly carrying out for a time the principle:
of increase.— lake, for instance, a
pea. plant it in very rich ground; al
low it to bear the first y ear, half dozer
pods only; remove all others, save the
largest, the following year, and retain
of the product three pods only; sow the
largest the following year, and retain
one pod; again select the largest, and
the next year the sort will by this time
have trebled its size and weight. ever
1 afterwards sow the largest seed, and
by these means you will get peas, or
any thing else, of a bulk ot which we
at present have no conception.
ij expansion of water i* a freez
ing state.— an experiment on the
expansion of water, in a freezing state,
attended with singular results, w as tried
by a correspondent of the montreal
gazette, during the last winter.—he
filled a u lbs. shell, (about j-l of an
inch in thickness,) with water, and
plugging up the hole securely, exposed
it to the action of the frost, during one
|of our keenest nights last winter. in
the morning he found the mighty power
had divded the iron mass into four sec
tions, one of w hich, weighing 4 1-2 lbs.
was thrown 20 1-2 yards, and must
have passed upwrards, over a wheel,
behind which it had been placed. the
ice remaining in the sections left be
hind, looked as if it had been pounded.
0/<tc staltsman.
“w hen 1 am making a plm of conse
queeee,” says tx>rd bohngbroke, “1 always
like tv consult a sensible woman.”