SOUTHERN DICTATION IN THE
SENATE,
The attempt of Mr. Pratt, one of the
Whig Senators from Maryland, to
bully Senator Seward ot New York, is
another specimen of the peculiar tac
tics by which the South controls the
legislation of the country. Mr. Seward
proposed an amendment to the Com
promise Bill, viz: that at some fixed
time, after the President has ascer
tained that the Constitution of New
Mexico is republican in its character,
he shall have authority to issue his
proclamation, admitting her into the
Union. Mr. Pratt rose in a towering
passion, and charged that the amend
ment was a violation of the Constitution
and could only come from a Senator
who had pleaded that there was a
higher law than the Constitution, and
in conflict with it. Mr. Seward dis
tinctly and calmly disclaimed Mr. P.'s
verson of his remark. Mr. Pratt re
plied with new violence, and declared
that Mr. Seward ought to be expelled
from the Mr. Raid win of Con- j
necticut rose and read the objectionable
sentenco from Mr. Seward’s‘speech,
and defended it. Mr. Hale did the
same, and said that if an agreement
with Mr. Seward in such an opinion was
an offence for which a Senator de
served expulsion, he (Mr. Hale) and
some others would be expelled. Mr.
Pratt replied that he would include him
in the motion with great pleasure. Mr.
Atchison of Missouri and Mr. Foote
expressed their opinions, agreeing with
Mr, Pratt. Mr. Chase of Ohio did not
like to hear these declarations of offen
sive purposes; he would rather see an
attempt made to carry them out. The
correspondent of the N. Y. Herald says
that Mr. Foote had a retort and a
look from Mr. Chase,which constituted
the most powerful argument of the day’s j
debate. We have seen nothing like
the instantaneous effect it produced.” j
Mr. Clay’s assault upon John Davis
was in similar spirit with Mr. Pratt’s j
attack. Mr. Clay was arguing that)
the great staple articles of the South
would not be cultivated in New Mexi
co, and hence slave labor would be t
valueless there. He then went on to
say: But the Hon. Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. Davis) has found
out a new object of temptation in re
spect to slaves in New Mexico. He
has employed an expression which filled
all of us with profound regret, on ac
count of the dignity, the character ofi
the Senator, and the high stations;
which he has occupied He spoke of
New Mexico being adapted to the j
‘breeding’ of slaves. He has had the
good sense to omit that expression in
his printed speech, and to substitute for
it the ‘traffic’ in slaves. Here Mr.
Davis, in his seat, remarked, “I be
lieve I did not use that expression.”—J
Mr. Clay replied, “The Senator did,
employ it, for it was heard and noticed j
by more than myself.” Mr. Davis
again said that according to the best of
his recollection he used the word ‘traf
fic.’ Clay went on:
“That is the language of the gen
tleman’s speech as printed; but the
word breeding’ was used by the gen
tleman, or I never heard a word of the
speech. Several Senators took note of,
it, and we expressed how much we were
shocked and surprised at it. It was
one of the principal topic’s ot theSen
ator’s'speech to talk about the cotton
power, the cotton interest, and the
breeding of slaves. Now if the Sena
tor had put it on the ground of a lapsus
linguae from the heat of debate or the
nnguarded character of debate, Isho’d
not insist upon attributing it to him, but
the expression was used by him, and I
remarked it; it was fixed upon my
memory, and very much did I regret
that he made use of it. This talk, sir,
about the cotton power, the lords of the
loom and the breeding of slaves, will
do for the bar-rooms of cross-road tav
erns, but 1 never hoped or expected to
hear upon the floor of the Senate such
epithets applied to the great manufac
turers of the North or the cotton grow
ers of the South.
Then he proceeded to tell how he
bad struggled by the side of Mr, Davis
yol. 111. NO. 34.
for protective tariffs, and how many
Southern men and Southern States had
stood with them, and how the Northern
Locofoco States had gone the other
way, and how Mr. Davis would not get
protection to manufactures bv throwing
out such taunts in relation to the cotton
power or the slave breeding interest.—
And with a great deal more of this sol
emn kind ot humbug, he wound up as
follows:
This charge upon the slaveholdii l
States, for breeding slaves for ru.
ket, is utterly false and giuu a
No such purpose ever enters, oei.c*»
into the mind of any slaveholder.
takes of T:,:' slaves; he fosters
them a d treats them often with the ten
derness of his own children. They
multiply on his hands, he cannot find
employment for them, and he is ulti-
mately, but most reluctantly and pain
fully, compelled to part with some of
them, because of the increase of num-
bers and the want of occupation. But
to say that it is the purpose, design or
object of the slaveholder to breed
slaves as he would breed domestic ani-
mals for a foreign market, is untrue in
fact, and unkind to be imputed or ever
intimated by any one. And it is not by
such reproachful epithets as lords of
the loom,” lords of the plantation,”
“the slave power,” and the “money
power,” that this country is to be har
monized, especially when we are de
bating upon these great measures which
are essential to its onward progress,
and to its present and future pros
perity.”
And John Davis submitted to this
scourging as a plantation nigger
would submit to a flogging from an
overseer. He uttered not a word.—
What cause was there for Clay’s
grossly offensive attack? We suppose
that it is as notorious (in spite of Mr.
Clay’s denial) as any fact in the world,
that the breeding” of slaves is made
a business in some parts of the South
a matter of calculation—the sale of
human flesh and blood. Is such a fact
too delicate to be alluded to at all, oris
the word breeding” too offensive for
delicate Southern ears? The word is
a good one; it expresses precisely' the
fact, which “traffic” does not.’ Mr.
Davis, in trying to express h!s meaning,
would no doubt choose words to suit
his case, and if he selected the word
breeding,” he took the right word.—
It he used that word and then expunged
it, and denied its use, he is the mean
est of cowards; if he did not use it, it
was proper to say so, but he should not
have suffered Clay’s offensive style of
attack to pass without reply?
ICjPWe give place to Blackson’s
communicatioti with great pleasure.—
We were not at the meeting alluded to,
and depended upon a friend for the
sketch we made, who we doubt not
gave it as correctly as he could. We
have lived long enough to learn that no
two men will report the same proceed
ings alike, especially while there is ex
citement, and such excitement as pre
failed at the meeting. We may as
well here say that it is the candid opin
ion among the white folks who were
there, that Mr. Woodson was assailed
without cause, and that he acted more
creditable than any of his opponents.—
Pittsburgh Post.
Mr. Editor: —l regret to see the
remarks in the Post of this morning re
specting the meetings held in this city
by Frederick Douglass, under the
heading “Trouble among the Anti
slavery men. The entire article, I
think, will make a false impression with
respect to the character of those meet
ings. It is stated that the Wylie street
church was refused on Sunday, but
on Tuesday Mr. Douglass and a large
audience took possession of it,” Now
this sounds as if Mr. Douglass and his
friends, without grant or permission,
had taken possession of the church,
when nothing could be further trom
the fact in the case. Mr. Douglass
had obtained the entire consent of the
officers of the church for the use
of the house in qnestion. There was
great noise and confusion.” There
was—but where? Out of doors, caused
by a woman, I am informed, who, un
der the window of the church, at
tempted to whip her poor drunken hus
band. The noise and confusion should
not therefore be set to the account of
the meeting. For my part, considering
that the noise was made so near the
church, I deem it quite surprising that
the audience remained so quiet and
orderly as they did.
I -have to complain, too, that while
the article in question speaks strongly
in regard to the severity of Mr. Doug
lass towards Mr. Woodson, it does not
state with equal strength the cause
which provoked that severity. The
complaint against Mr. W. w r as not that
he came into the meeting of Mr. D.
and charged him with infidel views, but
that he had done so in the absence of
Mr. Douglass, and in such a manner
as to deprive the latter of the oppor
tunity to set himself right before the
Wilie street church and the public. It
was this seeming unfairness, that roused
ths indignation of the negro orator, and
called forth his withering denunciation.
Your reporter states that there were
one or two fights during the meeting.
In this statement there is not a word of
truth, except in the case above cited,
and with that the meeting had nothing
whatever to do, and is therefore by no
means responsible for it.
By giving the above an insertion in
your forthcoming edition, you will ob
lige Very respectfully,
Peter Blackson.
Pittsburgh, July 25th,
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR;
[From the Pittsburgh Dispatch.]
FIRST OF AUGUST CELEBRATION
AT PITTSBURGH.
The Celebration of the First of
August by the Colored citizens was
quite as orderly and well managed as
any Fourth of July celebration we have
ever attended. The heavy rain during
the afternoon, interrupted the proceed
ings for some time, but they were re
sumed with nndiminished spirit after the'
Bhe speeches were very good—that
jof Mr. Munroe, a colored Episcopal
'-’’-rgynmu ot Micing&n xMoceae, excit
ed a high degree of interest, among
the white portion of the audience, as
well as among the colored, and he is
evidently an able man, a clear-think
ing and powerful reasoner. Mr. Vash
on read a very excellent letter from
Fred. Douglass, declaring his total in
ability to attend. Able addresses were
delivered by Messrs. Peck, Freeman,
Delany, Yashon, and one or two other
colored gentlemen, and Messrs S. Fol
jambe, R. H. Kerr and General Lari
mer also spoke briefly and eloquently
in behalf of human liberty.
One unpleasant accident marred the
pleasure of the day. A son of Rev.
Munroe, while playing with powder,
imprudently held his hands and face
over the train, and burned himself very
badly. He'was in great agony, and
his father finally took him up to the
city to procure medical relief.
The following is the letter of Mr.
Douglass:
J. B. Yashon: —My Dear Sir:—l
have but just reached Erie, being 44
hours performing the trip, which I had
expected to make in the space of thirty
six; and, worse still, I have to intorm
you, that there is no hope of my being
able to get a passage from here to Buf
falo before five o’clock this afternoon.
These circumstances, should they prove
as favorable as I hope, forbid me long
er to cherish the expectation of being
present with my friends in Pittsburg on
the first of August. I have been de
ceived and disappointed, by the hand
bills of this Canal Line Company.
They profess to convey passengers from
Beaver to Erie in thirty-six hours, and
they often delay them on their journey
full forty eight hours. This gross im
position on the traveling public ought
to be exposed and corrected. The
outrage ought not to be endured. It
makes all chance ot correct calculation
and arrangemorvt out nf tim *^»^tiinn.
and throngs the traveller's pathway
with vexatious disappointments.
I have no- language to express my
regrets at the prospects now before me.
I feel the disappointment all the more
keenly because the hope of being pre
sent at your celebration seemed to have
the approbation of all past circum
stances and arrangements. I was re
leased from my engagement at Penn
Yan tnat I might goto Medina; I was
released from Medina by the offer of
my friend Mr. Langston to fill that ap
pointment. But, now, all my plans
have failed, and my ardent hopes are,
so far as I can see, entirely defeated.
It is rendered nearly certain that I can
not be present in Pittsburg at the grand
celebration, and that the pleasure of
mingling my voice with the exulting
multitude, will be denied to me.
The only consolation now left me is,
that I can still be with you on that oc
casion, in spirit, aim, and principle;
that though time and distance have mu
tually interposed their insurmountable
barriers against my botfiiy 'presence,
that neither, can eusiuve, absolutely,
the free spirit. This impalpable es
sence this mysterious agent this
spark of the Divine mind, is free and is
all that can give freedom to an enslav
ed world. No fetters can bind it—no
walls can imprison it. Like the quick
flash of electric fire in the sky, it can
defy all distance, spurn all restraint,
break through all bonds, encircle the
globe, and make its pathway over the j
wonderous expanse of space In the,
power of this free spirit 1 shall be pres
ent at your celebration; rejoicing with;
you over freedom in the West Indies,
and sighing with you over the wrongs
of heart-broken millions in our own
boasted republic.
The event which you propose to
celebrate is no mean achievement. It
is the brightest and the best of the
nineteenth century. It stands out on
the page of history—unstained, unsul
lied, by human blood—unreproached
by the tears of widows and the cries of
orphans. On the morning of the first
of August, twelve years ago, eight
hundred thousand souls—long entomb
ed in the gloomy cells of West Indian
bondage—burst the horrid bands of
living death—exchanged the ashes of
slavery for the robes of freedom, and
experienced, at the hand of God, a
glorious resurrection! Blessed day!
Sublime event! Let it be celebrated.
Let the people assemble in countless
thousands and let joy and gladness
speak from the broad platfom of every
human countenance. Let elequence,
poetry, order, beauty, and the “con
cord of sweet sounds” swell the en
thusiasm, and conspire to hallow this
glorious jubilee, for it is worthy.
The first of August ought to awaken
in every heart the holiest emotions.
The colored man should be especially
affected by its annual return. It should
call into activity every manly aspira
tion of his soul. To him it is a day of
hope—the dawn of Liberty, in the re
splendent light of whose beams we can
scan down the vista of coming time—
all chains broken—all captives releas
ed—all slaves emancipated—all castes
ROCHESTER, N. Y„ THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1850.
Erie, July 28, 1850.
obliterated—and the institutions of U
nations, kindreds, tongues and people
under the whole Heavens*, acknowl
edging and recognizing the universa
Fatherhood of God, and the universa
Brotherhood of man. Let this be a
day of hope. Let it inspire us with a
firmer faith in the power of truth, the
mightiness of love, and the certainty ol
success in the efforts now making in
the cause of our own down-trodden
countrymen. Let t;
hardships. Oa<? er«L..
tnrotfga wlftih West ifmtft etiilmt*
tion was accomplished—quicken ou
memo y oi the noble anu
men, living end dead, who were chieliy.
instrumental in giving freedom to our
West India brethren. It is meet that
their names should be remembered, and
their deeds recorded on our hearts.
They are examples worthy of our imi
tation. Let us remember, especially,
the sainted Wilberforce, of whom
Lamartine has said “That he went up
to the throne of God with a million of
broken fetters in his hands, as evidence
of a life well spent!” Side by side
with the sainted Wilberforce, let us
engrave the name of Thomas Clark
son, whose life was sacredly and un
ceasingly devoted to emancipation, and
whose labors continued through a
series of more than sixty years. Let
Gransville Sharpe—the clear-sighted
and concientious—occupy a place in
the same group. But never let it be
forgotten, that it is to a woman, perhaps
more than to all others, we are indebt
ed for the event you are about to cele
brate. It wa Elizabeth Herrick who
first unfurled the white banner of im
mediate and unconditional emancipation
in the West Indies. This should be
told to our wives, daughters and mo
thers, that they may be encouraged. It
should be told to our sons, brothers
and fathers, that they may love and
respect women, for her moral and in
tellectual worth.
Gladly, my dear sir, would I give
utterance to other sentiments ir. con
nection with the occasion, but I know
how tame, in the ear of an assembly,
are letters, when the living speaker is
before it, “with a heart of fire and a!
tongue of flame,” ready to rouse up
the spirits of men with indignation
against tyranny, and to inspire all
hearts with a warmer love of free
dom; besides, the object of this letter
is merely to enable you to explain to I
my dear Pittsbung friends thn cause of
our mutual disappointment.
My best wishes and sincerest j.Vayets
the success of ysmr celebration.
I am, dear sir, most truly yours,
Frederick Douglass.
[From the Christian Citizen.]
COLORED SONS of TEMPERANCE
There sometimes occur circumstan
ces so anomalous, so incongruous, so
utterly monstrous in the action of soci
eties which wear phylacteries on their
foreheads inscribed with virtuous pro
fessions that they tempt one to doubt
the verity of logic, and to question the
existence of a human moral nature.
We say human moral nature, because
the beasts of the field never manifest
so mean a quality of instinct as are
some of the manifestations of the in
stincts of their human brothers, who
have perhaps been cradled on the
knees of Christian mothers, and whose
schooling has cost the state fifty dollars
each.
The National Division of the Sons of
Temperance at their late annual Con
vention in Boston voted, seventy-six,
to six, that it is improper and illegal to
admit colored men into the general
union. Perhaps this verdict stands un
paralleled in the history of opinion, for
cool insolence, and for moral atrocity.
Wo defy Egyptian, Jew, Greek, Ro
man, Scythian or South Carolinian, to
produce a parellel verdict to it within
the whole compass of their history
The motto of the Sons of Temperance
is “Love, purity, fidelity.” These are
the trinity of splendid abstractions
which they print upon their banners;
and which they solemnly accept as the
ideal of their moral life. The great
majority of these sons of Temperance
are Northern men. All of them are
professing republicans and yet their
National Division, their amphictyon,
their federal council, has proposed a
resolution that would have made Pha
raoh blush, and Nicholas of Russia, to
hang his head for shame.—Seventy
six members ofthis “National Division
of Republican Sons of Temperance
stand forward, not as the spaniels of
the South; not as the apologists of sla
very; not as despots of politics, nor
despots of social estate, but in the
hitherto unheard position of despots to
virtue.
We believe that the world was not
previously aware that virtuous princi
ples possessed certain proper colors,
and certain legal proprieties, until the
Teetotal syllogists assembled at Bos
ton, propounded this new gospel ofpro
priety and legality. If we construe
the word propriety as decency, and le
gality as natural right, perhaps there
might be something of truth and jus
tice discovered in this unique verdict;
but it would not redound to the advan
tage of pale-face jury. The positive
indecency of their inhuman decision,
deprives themselves of the rights of hu
manity; and their unhallowed proposi
tion of legality, which is opposed to all
God’s moral laws, cuts them off from
legal fellowship, with every true man.
Our colored brethren have been driven
from the ballot-box, and contumeliously
expelled from the railway car and the
church pew, and now here are men
seeking to aggravate those crimes and
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN-
insults by ostracising them from the
people’s moral unions.
We ask ever/ man of heart, every
man, who has not been utterly contam
inated by the logic of the South, to
look this vote, of the National Division
of the Sons of Temperance, steadily in
the face, and then to ask himself, if
this new aristocracy—this aristocracy
of moral pretension—it is to be tolera
in this land Arc men because cne-.
perhaps, of African mingles
.§s' v n ght.hs ui their Caucasian
I .J, jo be driven from amongst us,
and a!! participation in virtuous
action With us, upon account of this?
Think on the treason, even according!
to the logic of Captain Rynders., of con
demning seven eights of an Anglo-Sax
on to bondage, to insult, and to fash
ionable infamy, became a portion of
that blood that flowed in the heart of
Cleopatra, flows in his veins?
We grow sad as we contemplate the
obliquity of moral vision that condemns
us to review this most inhuman vote,
which denies to our colored brethren
all participation in the spread of moral
virtue; and in the elevation of man
kind.
We take heart again, and thank God
however, that the justice of Massachu
setts is true to humanity in this case,
although the “National Division” has
been faithless. The district sections
have calmly, nobly, manfully, repudia
ted this decision of the National Di
vision, and have reproved its seventy
six members with the most courteous;
but at the same most effective
of all reproofs.—They have refused to
sustain their decree.
This vote is as humiliating, if we
examine it collaterally as it is so posi
tively. Positively it demonstrates an
amount of prejudice against color in
the North, that even seeks to poison
with its stagnant odors, our very
benevolent unions; and it shows a sub
serviency to the dictation of the South
that is truly saddening. Such verdicts
as this cannot degrade men of color;
they rather make the red blood mount
into the cheek of white men at the mor
al debasement of their race.
Virtue knows no clime, no condition,
no race, no order. As the negro arose
from the hand of God, an equal in the
economy of the Creation, with the
white man; so did God give him an
equal power and right to accept those
virtues, which sprang from the afflu
ence of his divine mind. God placed
,in the soul of the negro an eternal and
fclfovitable legality, or natural right, to
/iove virtue, and liberty, and ho will
forever acknowledge the beautiful pro
priety of that love, even although ev
ery man should endorse a counter lie.
God, before the world was, decreed a
law stronger than any opinion that the
“National Division of tho Sons of Tem
perance” has dared, or wiil ever dare
to propose; and that law is the essential
equality of man, and the universal
brotherhood of virtue. By this decree
eternal as the heavens, it is legal, it is
proper, for colored men to unite with
all other men to elevate humanity, in
spite of such inhuman treason as was
perpetrated by the National Division of
the Sons of Temperance of Boston.
Thine Respectfully,
THE OUTRAGE IN VIRGINIA
We trust that the “ancient domin
ion” will not allow the injury done to
the sovereignty ot the laws in that
State by the horrible outrage at Cul
pepper to pass without the signal ex
hibition of its retribution. The tone of
the press in that State is sound in re
gard to mob law, and we hope ic re
flects but the sober sentiment of the
people in respect to such acts of fiend
ish barbarity. “Justices ot the Peace,
and members of Christian Churches”
were.engaged in this diabolical murder.
Then let them meet the murderer’s
fate; their respectability and presumed
intelligence but aggravate the enormi
ty of their crime, and leave them no
excuse to offer for their daring usurpa
tion. Law must be vindicated against
such terrible invasions of its preroga
tive, or society falls back into an
archy.
Culpepper Co., Va.
July 22, 1850.
Messrs. Editors: —On the night of
the 4th of April, 1849, one of our most
respectable and promising young men,
Mr. David W. Miller, merchant at
this place, was most barbarously mur
dered and his store robbed. A free
negro, named Win. Grayson, was ar
rested, committed to prison, tried be
fore an intelligent jury, found guilty
and sentenced to be hung. Our Judge
approving of the verdict, refused to
grant a new trial, which was applied
for by Grayson’s counsel.—A “bill
of exceptions” was then taken and tried
before the general court at Richmond,
and a new trial was granted. In May
last, Grayson was again laid before a
jury summoned mostly from another
county, (one of the jury was from the
State of Illinois, and another from Bal
timore,) and it was now presumed he
could have a fair and impartial hearing.
He was again found guilty, and again
sentenced to be hung. Another “bill
of exceptions” was laid before the gen
eral court, and another new trial was
granted. This was more that the pa
tience of the people could bear, for
though the evidence was entirely cir
cumstantial, yet so complete was every
link forming one entire chain, and so
clearly was the guilt of the prisoner
established, that they determined to
take the law into their own hands.
Accordingly, on the 16th inst., a
plan wjis set on foot to call a meetiag
of the citizens, and, on the next day,
WHOLE NO. 138
(the 17th,) from TIOO to 500 met at a
church, near the Court Hou*. which
meeting resulted ,n their proceeding to
ie jail, forcing iha door 3. taking
Grayson out and hanging him to a rail
placed aci two trees, where he
h ung all life was extinct.
«he rreeting was composed of the
fll 1 (s pectab!e portion of the com
mucitv. and was conducted in a quiet,
lne As.yet no steps have
en la .en by the authorities to han
d.e those concerned in the matter, and,
shoiiKi there be, such are the senti
of this and the surrounding
counties that it is feared it will grow to
be a very serious matter, and from be
ing “Grayson’s case.” it will turn to
the “people’s case.”
important development
treasonable PROJECT.
i lie Washington correspondent of
the Courier and Enquirer, in a letter
dated August 3d, makes the following
startling development of a project to
dissolve the Union and form a Southern
Confederacy which should embrace
the Republic of Mexico:
“The facts which I am about to dis
close will necessarily excite as much
astonishment throughout the country
as they did in my mind, when they
were first presented with all the in
trinsic evidence of undoubted truth,
and with a weight of direct authority
which admitted of no misapprehension.
I learn from an unquestionable source
that a gentleman, reported to be of
considerable character and influence
in the visited Mexico incognito,
in the month of April last, and after
various conferences with persons in
authority,|finally submitted a formal and
well-prepared proposition for the es
tablishment of a Southern Confederacy,
into which that Republic was to be
merged. One of the arguments and
reasons that were urged upon the per
sons to whom this scheme was submit
ted, as entitling it to favorable con
sideration, was that the City of Mexico
would probably be selected as the Capi
tal of the New Empire, since a part of
the plan embraced the extension of its
territory, peaceably or forcibly, fur
ther South. That project was laid be
fore the Mexican Cabinet by M. La
conza, the Minister of Foreign Affairs,
and was urged by him in council, in a
speech of considerable length. It was
resisted brother members_of the Cabi
net, and finally declined. The agent
of this nefarious cheme left soon after
for California. Mr. Doyle the British
Minister, was made aware of the pro
ceedings if ho did not lend them coun
tenance; but the impression is that the
conspiracy received decided encour
agement from the British Legation. I
am restrained by considerations, affect
ing the personal safety of individuals,
from disclosing the reasons which op
erated on the Mexican Cabinet, in re
jecting this infamous overture, and al
so of doing justice to those who entitled
themselves to immortal honor for scorn
ing and denouncing the proposition of
the traitors. The day may not be far
distant when they can receive full jus
tice, and with less danger than at
present. President Taylor was not
ignorant of this design, and with his
usual sagacity and resolution, had pro
vided against injurious consequences.
It might be mooted as a serious
question, whether it is not the duty of
our Government to demand of Mexico,
whether a scheme for its dismember
ment was thus entertained. 1 under
take to say, emphatically and unquali
fiedly, such is my confidence in the in
formation which has been placed at my
disposal, so far as the great fact is con
cerned, that this movement may b»
verified in every essential particular
that 1 have stated, if Congress or the
Execntive Department will direct the
necessary inquiries to be instituted. If
the proot was questionable in any
form, I would not entertain it, but hav
ing seen the testimony, I have felt not
only justified, but impelled by a sense
of moral obligation, in giving this state
ment to the public.
J. E. S.
Battle Week.— Tuesday, June 18,
was the anniversary of the memorable
battle of Waterloo; and the current
week is not worthy for the aniversary
of more bloody and important battles
fought within some two cenuries past,
than any other seven days of the year.
The battle of Naseby, between the
Cavaliers and Roundheada, was fought
June 14, 1654; of the Russian and
Swedes at Poultowa, June 19, 1700;
of the Allies and French at Dettingen,
June 18, 1764; of the Austrians and
Prussians at Kolin, June 17, 1757; of
the Americans and British at Bunker
Hill, June 17, 1775; of the Russians
and French at Frebbia, June 19, 1799;
of the same at Marengo, June 14,
1800; and again at Friedlands, June
14, 1807; of the British and French at
Salamanca, June 21, 1813; of the
British and Americans at Niagara,
June 15, 1814; of the French and Prus
sians at Ligny, June 16, 1815; and
lastly of the British and French at
Waterloo, June 18, 1815. It would be
easy to show that in most of the*se
terrible fights something decisive has
been gained to the great cause of civil
liberty, and that thus the entire week
is made up of red-letter days in the
calender of freedom.
None are so hard to please as those
whom satiety of pleasure makes weary
of themselves; nor any so readily pro
voked as those who have been always
courted with an emulation of civility.
SIR ROBERT PEEL as an ORATOR.
Sir Robert Peel’s speeches were,
like himself, in practical. There elo
quence consisted in their persuasive
ness, in the skill with which the argu
ments were evolved, and in the illus
trations, generally familiar and tan
gible “to the general.” His state
ments of his case were singularly lucid
built up laboriously, and constructed
with precision, so as to make them
clear to the least ready capacity. Dur
ing the latter years of his career ho
had, as it were, to instruct the public
in pi inciples and details, more espe
cially on commercial questions; and, of
course, there remains much on record
which had only a temporary and fleet
ing interest. Morover, to impress his
purpose on his hearers, he would fre
quently repeat his arguments; whicn,
though effective in the delivery, was
teadious to peruse. Notwithstanding
these drawbacks, Sir Robert Peel,
from the singular fascination of his man
ner, and the pains he took to adapt
himself to the various capacities he had
to address, was one of the most per
suasive and influential speakers ofhis
time. In fact his was the eloquence
adapted to a popular assembly, which
was to be assailed, not merely through
prejudices, habits of thought, interests
not always of the highest order, as well
as through reason. Looking’ at the
materials of which his speeches were
formed, the winning art of the speaker
was the more to be admired. Let us
add, that when the ordinary necessities
of the debate did not compel Sir Rob
ert Peel to descend to tne level of tho
average of his hearers, he could be as
lofty and philosophical as the most
elaborate orators. His personal vindi
cations at great crises of his life were
characterised by a striking dignity,
which uniformly commanded respect
from the House of Commons. Such a
combination of qualities—of wisdom,
the fruit of long experience—of caution,
the consequence, not of timidity but of
prudence—of boldness, tempered by
sagacity —of information, gleaned
through a long and laborous public life
—of high probity and sensitive honor
of statesmanlike tvisdom, not disdain
ing popular influence and sympathy—
of eloquence spontaneously springing
from the peculiar wants of his position,
and intuitively adapted to the occa
sions of its excercise—such a rare
union of many requisites for a states
man and minister in a popular Govern
ment will not soon be seen again in anv
individual. Nowhere will his loss be
more deplored than in that House of
Commons where he was accustomed
o rule, by the power of his persuasive
eloquence, with almost absolute sway.
—Morning Chronicle.
W. B. S.
The World’s Changes. —Oh spirit
of change! cold is thy touch; and thou
leavest in thy track, the chill of deso
lation round many a deserted hearth,
long time the gathering-place of happy
faces—the rallying-point of those who
are striving in the world’s welfare, and
the sacred abode of the dear Penates.
Few things are calculated to make more
painiul impression of the nature of
change, than the view of empty rooms
once containing within their walls so
much of the warmth, and light, and joy
of life; there is a voice in their silence
ever proclaiming the mutability of hu
man things; the dull ashes in the
cheerless grate are emblematical of
the decaying embers afortime brightly
burniug in bosoms now changed and
cold; the remnants of string which lie
about on the floors, are types of the
broken fibres which once bound some
fond heart to a cherished object—sev
ered now, and bleeding, but still refu
sing to quit their hold.
It is nothing to tell us that “the
change is for the better,” that “they
were glad to leave,” that “they would
be much better off when they were
gone,” &c. Who but has felt the fal
lacious character of such comfort in
the bitterness of a parting hour? Their
worldly prospects may be better; they
may, perhaps, have a larger share of
the good things (as they are called)
of this life; but think you that a place
to eat and drink, and sleep in, consti
tutes a home? Fven “the ox knows
its owner, and the ass his master’s
crib;” and if the brutes discover a
predilection for their accustomed stalls,
shall the spirit feel no clinging to the
spot so identified with its joys and
griefs— a spot hallowed by affection,
and endeared even by suffering; where
some we love have lisped their first
words, and others have breathed their
last sighs. —Jerrold’s Magazine.
A postal treaty has been concluded
with Switzerland, by which the postage
is reduced to eight cents a letter, and
may be prepaid or not. France has
now treaties of the same kind with
Belgium, Frankfort, Spain, England,
and Piedmont. The heavy tax on
American letters exists in all its bur
densomeness. For a letter weighing
a quarter of an ounce, we must pay
thirty cents, and for the weight of a
hair beyond this, the postage is dou
bled. This state of things exists, not
withstanding the commerce of France
with the United States is so much lar
ger than with England. If any small
matter can merit the attention of Mr.
Clayton, this does. An ordinary com
mercial letter, written on a thick sheet
of letter paper, very commonly used in
America, costs here from ninety cents
to one dollar and twenty. As to news
papers, the price varies according to
the weight, the size, and mode of en
veloping. I have often paid a franc
for one newspaper General rule: en
velop as little as possible a paper you
send to Europe.
Cleanliness.-A rusty shield prayed
to the sun, and said, “Osun! illume
me with thy ray;” to which the sun
retorted, “O shield! make thyself
clean!”
He who will take no advice but be
always his own counsellor, is sure to
have a fool often for his client
The three most difficult things are—
to keep a secret—to forget an injury
and to make good use of leisure.
In every heart there are secrets
which ars never disclosed, and which
cannot be wrested from it.
Russia has at present the largest ar
my of any nation in Christendom—*
500,000 strong.
Anti-Slavery Meetings.
Frederick Douglass will hold Anti-
Slavery meetings (D. V.) on
Sunday evening, Aug. 18th, at Clyde.
Monday evening, 19th, at Port Byron.
Tuesd’y evening, 20th, at Syracuse.
He intends being present at the grand Con
vention at Cazenovia, on Wednesday and
Thursday, the 21st and 22d of August.
Liberty—Equality—Fraternity!!!
Fugitives from the prison-house of South
ern despotism with their friends and protec
tors in council!
Such persons as have escaped from slavery,
and those who are resolved to stand by them,
are invited to meet for mutual counsel and en
couragement at Cazenovia, Madison County,
Jfew York, on Wednesday, 21st of August.
1850. The assembling will take place at 10
o’clock A. M. in the Independent Chutch, and
the meeting will continue through two days.
The object aimed at on the occassion will not
be simply an exchange of congratulations and
an expression of sympathy, but an earnest
consideration of such subjects as are pertinent
to the present condition and prospects of the
slave and free colored population of the coun
try, and to the relations, which good and true
men sustain to the cause of impartial freedom
and justice. Friends shall not this be made
a grand event 1 Shall not the channels of for
mer sympathies be opened anew? Will not
they of the “old guard” delight to look each
other in the face once more, and tenew their
vows upon a common altar Let them come
from every quarter—freemen, free women, and
fugitives.' They are bid a most cordial wel
come by the good people of Cazenovia. There
are friends, hospitalities, meeting houses, and
beautiful groves there! Let all come, who
have a heart and can
In behalf of the New Fork State Vigilance
Committee,
GERRIT SMITH, Prest.
Charles E. Ray, Sec.
P. S. The “North Star,” Ward’s “Impar
tial Citizen,” the “Anti-Slavery Standard,”
the “Liberator.” and all papers, disposed to
do so, will confer a favor by transfering the
above call to their columns, and keeping it up
till the time set for the meeting.— Liberty
Party Paper.
MESS A G E
OF
PRESIDENT FILLMORE
ON THE
TEXAS BOUNDARY QUESTION.
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
I herewith transmit to the two Houses of
Congress, a letter from his Excellency the
Governor of Texas, dated on the 14th of
June last, addressed to the late President of
the United States, which, not having been
answeied by him, came to my hands on his
death, and I also transmit a copy of the an
swer which I have felt it to be my duty to
cause to be made to that communicatihn.
Congress will perceive that the Governor of
Texas officially states, that, by authority of
the Legislature of that State, he despatched
a special Commissioner, with full power and
instructions to extend the civil jurisdiction of
the State over the unorganized counties of
El Paso, Worth, Presido and Santa Fe,
situated on its North-western limits; he pro
ceeds to say, that the Commissioner had
reported to him in an official form, that the
military officers employed in the service ol
the U. S. stationed at Santa Fe, interposed,
adversely, with the inhabitants, to the fulfil
ment of his object, and in favor of the estab
lishment of a separate State Government,
East of the Rio Grande, within the rightful
limits of the State of Texas.
These four counties, which Texas proposes
to establish and organize, being within her
own jurisdiction, extended over the whole of
the Territory east of Rio Giande, which has
been heretofore regarded ?e ar« osential and
integral part of the departmentof New Mexi
co, and actually governed and possessed by
her people until conquered and severed from
the Republic of Mexico by the American
arms. The Legislature of Texas has
been called together by the Governor for the
purpose, as is understood, of maintaining her
claim to the territory east of the Rio Grande,
and of establishing over it her own jurisdic
tion, and her own laws by force.
These proceedings of Texas may well
arrest the attention of all branches of ihe
Government of the United States, and 1 re
joice that they occur while Congress is yet in
session. A crisis may be brought on which
shall summon the two Houses of Congress,
and still more directly the Executive Govern
ment, to an immediate performance of their
respective duties under the Constitution of the
United States.
The President is constituted Commander
in-Chief of the Army and Navy, and of the
Militia of the several States when called into
the actual service of the United States. The
Constitution declares also, that lie shall take
care of that the laws be faithfully executed,
and that he shall from time to time give to
Congress information of the State of the
Union.
Congress has power under the Constitution
to provide for calling out the militia to exe
cute the laws of the Union, and suitable and
appropriate acts of Congress have been
passed, as well for providing for calling forth
the militia as for placing other suitable and
efficient means in the hands of the President
to enable him to discharge the constitutional
functions of his office. The second section
of the act of the 27th of February, 1795, de
clares that “whenever the laws of the United
State shall be opposed, or their execution ob
structed in any State by combinations too
powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings or the power
vested in the marshals, the President may
call forth the militia, so far as may be neces
sary, to suppress such combinations, and to
cause the laws to be duly executed.”
Bv the act of March 3d, 1807, it is provided
“that in all cases to the obstructions of the
laws, either of the United States or any indi
vidual State or-Territory, w hen it is lawfu
for the President to call forth the military to
the purpose of causing the law's to be dnlv
executed, it shall be lawful for him to employ
for the purposes, such part of the land o
naval force of the United Slates as lie shal
judge necessary.” These several enactment
are now in full force. If therefore the law
of the United States are opposed ot obstruct
ed in any State or Territory, by combinations
too powerful to be suppressed by the judieia
or civil authorities, and it becomes a case in
which it is the duty of the President either
to call out the militia, or to employ the mili
tary or naval force of the United States, or u
do both, if in his judgment exigency of the
occasion shall so require, for the purpose ot
suppressing such combination. The consti
tutional duty of the President is plain ano
peremtory. The authority vested in him by
law for the performance of his duty is clear
and ample. Texas as a States, is authorizec
to maintain her own laws so far as they are
not repugnant to the Constitution, laws and
treaties of the United States to suppress in
surrections against her authority, and to
punish those who commit treason against the
State, according to the forms provided by her
own Constitution, and her own laws. But
this power is local, and confined entirely
within the limits of Texas herself. She can
fiossib’y confer no authority which can be
awfully exercised beyond her own boundary.
All this is plain, and hardly needs argument
or elucidation. If Texas militia, tliereiore,
march into any one of the other States, or
into any Territory of the United States, there
to execute or enforcE any law of Texas, they
beeome at that moment trespassers —they are
no longer under the protection of any law ful
authority, and are to be regarded merely as
intrudes; and if within such State or Terri
tory they' obstruct any law of the United
Slates, either py f° rce of arms or mere power
of numbers, constituting such a combination
as is too powerful to be suppressed by the
civil authority, the President of the United
States has no option left to him, but is bound
to obey the solemn injunction of the Constitu
tion, and exercise the high powers vested in
him by that instrument and by the acts of
Congress.—Or, if any civil posse, armed or
unarmed, enter into anv territory of the
United States under the protection of the
laws thereof, with the intention to seize indi
viduals to be cairied elsewhere for trial, for
alleged offences, and this posse be too pow
erful to be resisted by the local and civil au
thorities, such seisure or attempt to seize, is
to be prevented or resisted by the authorities
of the United Slates. The grave and impor
tant question now arises’, whether there be in
the territory of New Mexico any existing
law of the United States, opposition to which,
or obstruction of w hich, would constitute a
case calling for the interposition of the au
thority vested in the President.
The Constitution of the United States de
clares that the Constitution and laws of the
United Statas which shall be made in pur
suance thereof and all the treaties made, or
which shall be made under the authority of
the United States, shall be the supreme law
of the land. If, therefore, New Mexico be a
territory of the United States, and if any
treaty stipulation be in force therein, such
treaty stipulation is the supreme law of the
land, and is to be maintained and upheld,
and accordingly, in the letter to the Governor
of Texas my reasons are given for believing
that New Mexico is now a territory of the
United States with the same extent and the
same boundaries which belonged te it in the
actual possession of the Republic of Mexico,
and before the late war. In the early part of
that war both California and New Mexico
were conquered by the arms of the United
States, and were in the military possession of
the United States at the date of the treaty
of peace. By that treaty the title by conquest
was confirmed, and these territories, pro
vinces or departments separated from Mexico
forever, and by the same treaty certain im
portant rights and securities were solemnly
guaranteed to the inhabitants residing there
in.” By the fifth article of the treaty it is
declared, that the boundary line between the
two Republics shall commence in the Gulf of
Mexico, three leagues from land opposite the
mouth of the Rio Grande, —otherwise called
the Rio Bravo del Norte, or oppusite the
mouth of its deepest branch, if it should make
more than one branch, emptying directly into
the sea; from thence up the middle of that
river, following the deepest.channel where it
has more than one, to the point where it
strikes the southern boundary of New’ Mexico,
thence westwardly along the whole southern
boundary of New Mexico, which runs north
of the town called Paso, to its western boun
dary termination, thence Westward along the
western line, of New Mexico until it intersects
the first branch of the River Gifa, or, if it
should not inleisect any branch of that liver,
then to the point on the said line nearest to
such branch and thence in a direct line to the
same, thence down the middleiof said branch
and of the said river until it empties into the
Rio Colorado, thence across the Colorado,
following the division line between upper and
lower California to the Pacific Ocean.”
The Bth Article of this trea yis in the
following terms. “The inhabitants of Mexi
can origin now established in territories pre
viously belonging to Mexico, and who remain
for the future within the limits of the United
States, shall be free to continue where they
now reside, or to remove at any time to the
Mexican Republic, retaining the property
which they possess in the said territory, or
disposing thereof and removing the proceeds
wherever they please, without being subject
ed on this account to any contribution lax, or
charge whatever. Those who shall prefer to
remain in the said territories, may either re
tain the tittle and rights of Mexican citizens,
-or acquire those of citizens of the United
States; hut they shall be under obligation to
make their election within one year from the
date of the exchange of ratifications of this
treatv. and whe-st««Hroaiaifrm itie said
territories after the expiration of that ye»j
without having declared their intention to
retain the character of Mexicans, shall be
considered to have elected to become citizens
of the United States in the said territories.
Property of every kind now belonging to
Mexicans not established there, shall be in
violate. The present owners, their heirs, and
all Mexicans who may hereafter acquire said
property by contract, shall enjoy with respect
to it, guarantees equally ample, as if the same
belonged to citizens of the United States.”
The 9th Article of the Treaty is in these
words —“The Mexicans who in the Territo
ries aforesaid shall not preserve the character
of citizens of the Mexican Republic conform
ably with what is stipulated in the preced
ing article, shall be incorporated into the
Union of the United States, and be admitted
at the proper time to be judged of by the
Congress of the United States, to the enjoy
ment of all the tights of citizens of the United
States according to the principles of the Con
stitution, and'in the meantime shall be main
tained and protected in the free enjoyment
of their liberty and property, and secured in
the free exercise of their religion without re
striction. It is plain, therefore, in the face
of these treaty stipulations, that all Mexicans
established in territories north Or east ot the
line of demarcation already mentioned, come
within the protection of the 9th article, and
that the treaty being a part of the supreme
law of the land, extends over all such Mexi
cans and assures to them perfect security in
the free enjoyment of their liberty and pro
perty, and in the free exercise of their re
ligion, and this supreme law of ihe land is
in actual force over this Terriiory, and is to
be maintained until it shall be displaced or
superseded by other legal provisions, or ob
structed by combinations too powerful to be
suppressed by the civil authority.”
This case is one which comes within the
provisions of the law, and which obliges the
President to enforce these provisions. Neither
the constitution nor the laws, nor iny duty or
my oath of office, leave me any alternative
or any choice of ray action. The Executive
Government of the United States has no pow
er or authority to determine what was the
true line of boundary between Mexico and the
United States before the treaty of Guada
loupe Hidalgo, nor has it any such power
now, since the question has become one be
tween the State of Texas and the United
States. So far as this boundary is doubtful,
that doubt should be removed by some act of
Congress, to which the assent of Texas may
be necessary by some appropriate mode of
legal adjudication; but in the meantime, if
disturbances or collisions arise, or should be
threatened, it is absolutely incumbent on the
Executive Government, however painful the
duty, to take cate that the laws are faithful
ly maintained. He can regard only the
actual state of things existing in the date of
the treaty, and is bound to protect all inhabi
tants who were then established and now re
main north and east of the line of demarcation,
in the full enjoyment of their liberties and
property, according to the provisions the 9th
article of the |Treaty. In other words, all
now regarded as New Mexico which
was possessed and occupied as New Mexico
by the citizens of New Mexico at the date of
the Treaty, until a definite line of boundary
shall be established, and by competent au
thority. This assertion of duty to protect the
people of New Mexico from threatened vio
lence. or from liability to be earned into
I’exas for trial for alleged offences against
Texan laws, does not at ail include any claim
of oower on the part of the Executive to es
tablish any civil or military government with
in that territory. That power belongs ex
clusively to the legislative department, and
Congress is the sole judge of the time and
manner of creating or authorising any such
government. The duty oi the Executive only
applies to the execution of laws, and the
maintenance of treaties actually in force, and
the protection of all the people of the United
States in the enjoyment of the lights which
those treaties and laws guarantee. It is ex
ceedingly desirable that no occasion should
arise for the exercise of the powers thus ves
ted in the President by the Constitution and
the laws. With whatever mildness those
powers might be executed, or however clear
the case of necessity, yet might
nevertheless follow which no human sagacity
can foresee.
1 have thus laid before Congress the com
munication of his Excellency the Governor of
Texas, and the answer thereto, and I have
made such observations as 1 have thought the
occasion called for respecting Constitutional
obligations which may arise in the future pro
gress of things, and may devolve on me to
discharge. I hope I shall not be regarded as
stepping aside from the line of my duty, not
withstanding I am aware that the subject is
now before both Houses, if I express my deep
and earnest conviction of the importance of an
immediate decision, oi arrangement, for the
settlement of the question of the boundary
between Texas and the Territory of New
Mexico. All considerations of justice, gene
ral expediency and domestic tranquility call
for this. It seems to be in its character and
by position the first, or one of the first, of the
questions growing out of the acquisition of
California, and New Mexico cannot be made
either a State or a Territory, until it shall be
first ascertained what New Mexico is, and
what are her limits and boundaries. These
cannot be fixed or known fill the line of divi
sion between her and Texas shall be ascer
tained and established. Numerous and weighty
reasons conspire, in my judgement, to show
that this divisional line should be established
by Congress with the assent of the SweriV
ment of Texas, in the first place. This seems
by far the most prompt mode of proceeding
by which the end can be accomplished. If
judicial proceedings were resorted to, such
proceedings would necessarily be slow ancT
years would pass by, in all probability, before
the controversy could be ended; so great a
delay in this case is to be avoided if possible;
such delay would he every way inconvenient
and might be the occasion of disturbances and
collisions; for the same reason 1 would, with
the utmost defence to the wisdom of Congress,
express a doubt of the expediency of the ap
pointment of Commissioners and of examina-
tion, estimate and award of indemnity to be
made by them; this would be but a species of
arbitration which might last as long as a
suit at law. So fat as lam able to compre
hend, the general facts are now all known),
and Congress is as capable of deciding it
justly and properly now, as it probably would
be after the report of the Commissioners.
If the claim of title on the part of Texas
appears to be well founded in the whole or
part, it is in the competency of Congress to
offer her an indemnity for the surrender of
the claim. In a case lik this, surrounded as
it is by many cogent considerations, all call
ing for an amicable adjustment and immediate
settlement, the States would be justi
fied, in my opinion, in allowing an indemnity
to Texas, not unreasonable or extravagant,
—but lair, liberal, and awarded in a just
spirit of accommodation. 1 think no event
would be hailed W'ith more gratification by
the people of the United States, than the
amicable adjustment of these difficult ques
tions, which have for a long time agitated the
country, and occupied, to the exclusion of
other subjects, the time and attention of Con
gress. Having thus freely communicated the
result of my own reflection on the most ad
visable mode of adjusting this boundary ques
tion, 1 shall, nevertheless, cheerfully acquiesce
in any other mode which the wfisdom of Con
gress may devise; and, in conclusion, 1 repeat
try conviction, that every consideration of the
public interest manifests the necessity of a
provision by Congress for a settlement of this
boundary question before the present session
be brought to a close. The settlement of
other questions connected with the same sub
ject, within the same period, is greatly to be
desired, but the adjustment of this appears
to me to be ia thefiighest degveo important.
In the tram of such an adjustment we may
well hope there will follow a return of bamm
ny and good will, an increased attachment t<
the Union, and the general satisfaction of-ik
country,
MILLARD Y
Washington, Aug. 9, 1850
Executive Department,
Austin, Texas, June 14, 1508.
To His Excellency Z. Taylor. President o
the United States.
Sir —By authority of the Legislature of
Texas, the Executive of the State in Feb
ruary last, dispatched a special Commissioner
with full power and instructions to extend the
civil jurisdiction of the State over the unor
ganised counties of El Paso, Worth, Presido
and Santa Fe, situated upon its north western
limits. That commissioner has reported, in
an official form, that the military officers em,
ployed in the service of the United States
stationed at Santo Fe, interposed, adversely,
with the inhabitants, to the fulfilment of his
object, by employing influence in faver of the
establishment of a separate State Government
east of the Rio Grande and within the rightful
limits of the State of Texas. I tiansmit to
you, herewith, the Proclamation of Col. John
Monroe, acting under the orders of the Gov
ernment of the United States, under the
designation of Civil and Military Governor of
the Territory of New Mexico, f have very
respectfully to request that your Excellency
will cause me to be informed at your earliest
possible convenience, whether or not this
officer has acted in this matter under the or
ders of his Government, and whether his
proclamation meets with the approval of the
President of the United States.
*VV ith assurance of distinguished considera
tion, I have the honor to be your Excellency’s
most obedien* servant.
Southern Chivalry. —A writer in the
Hartford Republican says that it is amusing
to ruad the boas's of the Southern Chivalry,
particularly of that famous legion, whose
head-quarters appear to be fixed in South
Carolina—a Stale that has more negroes than
whites, and contains almost as many inhabi
tans as Ccnnecticut.
During the Mexican war, South Carolina
was represented in Mexico by a volunteer
regiment composed of as fine young men as
the Slate afforded; in fact, the State took
special pride in this regiment, and great care
was taken in selecting the men for It.
Now it is well known to many who served
in the 9th, or New'England Regiment, that
in the battle of Churubusco, this carefully
chosen Regiment of South Carolina Palmet
tos, had a most uncomfortable tremor of the
nerves at one time, the consequences of which
might have been disastrous, but for the su
perior steadiness of the New England Regi
ment.
The South Carolina Regiment, being in
advance of the 9th was thrown into a panic,
by the w histle of Mexican bullets, broke, and,
like a flock of disorderly sheep, rolled back
on the New’ England Regiment, and threw it
into disorder. But the New Englandets recov
ered, allowed the “chivalry” to pass through
their ranks to the rear, ane under the direc
tion of their officers, Ransom and Seymour
formed again, amid the thickest of the fliyng
bullets.—The “chivalry,” not having suf
ficient nerve to follow this example, got be
hind a wall and building, and there.
Much has been said of the flight of the 2d
Indiana Regiment at the battle of Buena
Vista, and some of the “chivalry” papers
have stigmatized them as “Northern sol
diets,” but this feat of the Palmettos, at the
battle of Churubsco, has been passed over in
silence.— E/nan. Republican.
In doing benevolent things, there is, both
as to the time and the manner, a propriety
which gives value even to the least; the man
ner in particular.has a marvellous effect. A
charitable action, gracefully done, is twice
done, To some people one would be willing
to owe almost everything, so handsomely do
they confer kindness, while from others a fa
vour, for the opposite reason, is a load. i
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, AUGUST 15, 1850.
Thk IS orth Star is sometimes sent to friends
who <io not take the paper, in the hope that they
may see lit to subsorilie for it. Subscriptions and
donations for, the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed 10/Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
n. y.
anted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
lo our Subscribers. —ln several contem
porary anti-slavery journals, we have recently
seen a notice to “subscribers.” We shall
take the hint thus afforded us, and request Till
airears for this paper favor
us by remitting the amounts due, through the
post. Let*coc/t friend, of the cjiu.se exert
himsplfto increase the circulation of our pa
per by obtaining one new subscriber.
Our English frifends who have not paid
their subscriptions to the North Star, for the
year 1850, are requested to forward them, by
JjQsCSl.’ ~rder, to Mrs. llenrv Riciiard
«y'sS*otf^fdrh'ffr t/K)Ve, Newcastle-on
Tyne.—f. d
m We are happy to observe that the First
bf August Celegration in Pittsburgh passed off
very pleasantly. The speeches on the occa
sion are said to have been highly eloquent
aud impressive.
The Impartial Citizen. —This paper has
not reached our office since its removal from
Syracuse to Boston. We hope this neglect
has been unintentional, and that the omission
has not been in consequence of any difference
of opinion which may exist between us.—
F. D.
The New-Englander, published at Boston,
and edited by Wm. A. White, and C. W.
Slack, is now most beautifully printed aud is
about the best looking weekly newspaper that
comes to our editorial table. Fine in its out
ward appearance as it is, it is no less fine in
the talent, industry, and manly spirit with
which ii is edited. We rejoice that such a
paper can flourish in Boston.— f. d.
The Portland Inquirer.” —We notice
with pleasure the improved appearance of
this “Free Soil paper.” It is one of the few
papers ot that party which seems to desire to
do justice to. the characteis of the men and
women of our land who are now boldly la
boring for the' dissolution of the American
Union, as the only means of freeing the
Northern people from the ctime and guilt of
supporting slavery.— f. d.
The New York Eclectic Medical and
Surgical Journal. —The second number of
this monthly periodical is on our table, and
although we are perhaps too scantily informed
on the subject of medicine and surgery to
make an opinion of ours as to its merits of
any consequence, we will venture to thank
the publishers for sending it, and acknowledge
the sa isfaction with which we have perused
a part of the articles it contains. The two
hist the one on the blood, and the other on
dyspep^y—are written in a bold and truthful
stvle, a.ud wijl. rß|iajt a careful perusal.— j.- n
.moke:
The Convention at Cazenovia, to be
Let no Fugitive Slave, within two hundred
miles of Cazenovia, fail to be present at the
proposed Convention: Public attention has
already been directed to it; and pio-slavery
malice has already pouted out the vials of its
wrath upott it. With such a baptism, it
deserves to he reared into influence and im
portance, such as seldom falls to the lot of
an ordinary anti-slavery meeting. We hope
to see a very large assemblage on the occa
sion.—F. D.
IE? The cause in Ohio is moving forw'ar
under the energetic labors of our friends, A
K. Foster, Parker Pillsbury, J. W. Walker,
H. C. Wright, and Samuel Brooke. Con
ventions are being held in various parts of the
State, vast crowds attend, and the speeches
made are of the most radical anti-slavery
stamp. Meanwhile, the Anti-Slavery Bugle
is blowing lively music. We have not yet
heard of any mobs at their meetings but
they are yet upon the Reserve—that may
account for it. We shall watch their move
ments with increasing interest, especially
w hen they penetrate the Southern part of the
State.— f. d.
P. 11. BELL.
It will be seen by a bill which has just
passed in the. United Slates Senate, by a vote
of 30 to 20, that Texas has succeeded in
blustering the United States out of ten
million dollars. This sum is to be paid by
the Northern people, simply to induce Texas
to relinquish a claim to a large slice of New
Mexico, which no one seriously believes
I exas had any right to make. Even now,
with this advantageous offer, which they at
the first could hardly have expected, it is
doubted in some quarters whether that State
will be satisfied with ten millions. Why
should she be satisfied! If she wants ail
she can get, and gets more only by claiming,
why not press forward? Hereafter, with
such a precedent, depend upon it, there will
be more of these claims, and threats of dis
union and rebellion will, as usual, bring the
suple North to teims. f. d.
H? Robert Morris, Esq., of Boston, was
adnntled to practice in the United States Cir
cuit Court. The recommendation of Morris
by the Boston Bar was unanimous, Mr. M.
is the first black man admitted to the bar in
the United States, and the first lawyer of the
proscribed race admitted to a Federal Court.
The above is from the Anti-Slavery Bugle
Here is a colored young man, who, by patien
industry and virtuous conduct, lias so far tri
umphed over American prejudice as to be
admitted to practice at the bar of the Unitec
States Coutts. Yet encouraging as is the
fact just stated, this same distinguished gen
tleman may not even now go into the District
of Columbia without being I.able to be sold
into slavery as a fugitive slave; nor may he
claim exemption from insult from any low
white ruffian who may be disposed to offer it.
A great step, however, has been gained.—
When colored men are found doing the same
things —all the same things that white men
do, and doing them as well as white men do
them, there will no longer be any prejudice
against the colored man to combat.— f. d.
held the 21st and 22d.
Congressional.
Celebration at Medina.
The Fitsi of August was celebrated at
Medina with commendable spirit and ending
siasm. At an early hour of the day, large
numbers from the adjoining and even distant
towns, flocked into the village, dressed in
such a manner as to assure all who saw them
that they had come for no mean purpose.—
From eight o’clock until eleven in the morn
'ing, the streets were quite thronged—car
nages whirled through the streets in great
profusion—crow ds promenaded the side-walks
—all indicating the first to be a bright day.
The weather, which had been somewhat
threatening, became propitious—not too warm
nor too cool, too wet nor too dry, too clear
nor too cl oudy; but a soft and beautiful com
bination of all these qua.ities into a happy
medium, spreading a reposing charm over
fields, woods and village. At a few minutes
past eleven o’clock, a procession was formed
at the door-of a large hotel, and led by a hand
of music. They marched to the grove, where
seats had been arranged and a platform erected
lor the accommodation of people and speak
eis. The grove presented a delightful scene.
It is always pleasant to see a large number of
earnest people assembled in a shady gtove.
There is something primitive and impressive
about such scenes, such as cannot be seen nor
felt in man's magnificent temples. The con
gregation were entertained here by excellent
music and speeches, until a late hour in the
afternoon, when the assembly dispersed, with
many evidences of satisfaction with the day’s
proceedings.— f. d.
Important from Washington.
The Rochester Democrat says The tele
graph informs us that the bill introduced by
Senator Pierce has passed the Senate by a
vote of 30 to 20. As no material amend
ments are named as having been adopted, we
presume it has passed substantially as at first
repotted. The following is'lhe bill, by com
paring which with the telegiaph report of t he
boundaries, it can be*determined whether they
are essentially changed
Be it enacted, &c., That the following
propositions be, and tthe same hereby are,
offered to the State of Texas, which, when
agreed to by said State in ah act passed by
the general Assembly, shall be binding and
obligatory upon the United States and upon
the said State of Texas Provided, That
said agreement by said general assembly
shall be given on or before the first day ol
December, 1850
First. The State of Texas will agree that
her boundary on the north shall commence at
the point at which the meridian of 100 de
grees west from Greenwich is intersected
by the parallel of 36 deg. and 30 min. north
latitude, and shall run from said point due
west to the meridian of 103 degrees west
from Greenwich; thence her boundary shall
run due south to the 32d degree of north lat
itude to the Rio Bravo del Noite; and thence
with the channel of said river to the Gulf of
Mexico.
SeGond. The State of Texas cedes to the
United States all her territoiy exterior to her
limits and boundaries, which she agrees to
establish by the first article of this agreement.
Third. The State of Texas relinquishes
all claim upon the United States for the debts
of Texas, and for compensation or indemnity
for fije surrender to the United States of her
ships,'-forts, arsenals, custom-houses, custom
house revenue, arms and munitions of war,
and public buildings, with their sites, which
became the property of the United States at
the time of the annexation.
Fourth. The United Stales, in considera
tion of said reduction of boundaries, cession
nui|, u.,J of olaiuui^
will pay to liie State of Texas the sum of
ten millions of in a stuck beating five
per cent, interest, and redeemable at the end
of fourteen years, the interest payable half
yearly at the treasury of the U. S.
Fifth. Immediately after the President of
the United States shall have been furnished
with an authentic copy of the act of the gen
er?l assembly of Texas, accepting these pro
positions, he shall cause the slock to be issued
in favor of the State of Texas, as provided
for in the fifth aitide of this agreement.
Provided, also, That five millions of said
stock shall not be issued until the creditors of
the said State, holding bonds of Texas, foi
which duties on imports were specially
pledged, shall first file at the Treasury of the
United States releases of claims against the
United States for or on account of said
bonds.”
Mr. Frederick Douglass and the
“Times.”—Mr. Douglass has addressed ihe
following intelligent and manly letter to the
Times:
“Sir, —Although I fear it may be an un
warrantable intrusion upon your lime and at
tention on my part, I must yield to the strong
desire which moves me to tiiank you, in the
name of and humanity, lor your timely
remarks in the of June 11th, on the
subject of Americamselavery, and more espe
cially for your animadversions on the brutal
assault made upon me by a mob while I w
quietly and inoffensively walking on the B
teiy at New York.
“The influence exerted upon the more
telligent class of the American people by t
judicious expression of British sense of ju
tice and humanity is immense, and I belie
highly beneficial.
“The outrage committed upon me in Ne
!fork was the work of low and vicious pe
pie. Yet, Sir, you were perfectly right
taking that outrage, and the remarks mat
upon it by the Globe as a far illustration
the bitter antipathy which is entertained her
even by the better class of white peop]
against colored persons. Polished Ameiica
gentlemen wmuld applaud a deed ofrufflanis
like the-one in question, although they mig
shrink fiom the performance of the deed
self. My offence is alleged to be that of wal
ing down Broadway in company of ‘twovvhi
women.’ This, however, is not a fair stat
ment of that offence. My offence was that
walked down Broadway, in company wit
white persons, on terms of equality. Had
been with those persons simply as a servan
and not as a friend, I should have been re
garded with complacency by the refined, ant
with respect by the vulgar class of white pe
sons who throng that great thoroughfare
The clamor here about human equality
meaningless. We have here an aristocrac
of skin, with which, if a man be coveied, ant
can keep out of the State prisons, he pos
sesses the high privilege or insulting a color
ed man with the most ferfect impunity. Thi
class of aristocrats are never more dispieaset
than when they meet with an intelligent co!
ored man. They recognise in him a contra
diction to their ungenerous and unsound the
ories respecting the negro race, and, not be
ing able to reason him down to a level wit]
the brute, they use brute force to knock him
down to the desired level. I am, perhaps
trespassing too long upon your time, ant
although it may be a small matter to you as
to how 1 may feel with respect to your noble
defence of injured and insulted humanity,
could not be satisfied with myself without ex
pressing in my humble way my sincerest
gratitude for that defence.”
We have taken'the above from the Lon
don Inquirer,” and the latter doubtless copied
it from the London Times.” The letter
was not originally intended for publication,
but simply for the editor of the “Times,”
for whom we experienced the grateful feel
ings indicated in that letter. Their ptompt
and able article, which was published a few
weeks since, exposing to the world the
infamous conduct of a band of cowardly ruff
ians on the battery in New York, and the
still more ruffianly tone of the New York
press ou the subject of that conduct, was so
noble, that, poor as are the thanks of a slave,
we felt encouraged to offer them. Since the
London Times has taken up the subject,
several other highly respectable and influential
British journals have denounced the cruel,
brutal and barbarous attack upon us. Among
these, we gratefully remember the London
Standard of Freedom, and the London
Inquirer. Each of these papers has made
that outrage the occasion for highly intel
ligent comments upon American customs,
civilization and freedom.— f. d.
ID 3 We have received the following aiticle
from our esteemed friend, Mrs. Henry Rich
ardson, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Her time
and talents are now almost entirely devoted
to the h ree Labor cause. Such industiy, de
votion and perseverance as hers, cannot be
employed in any cause without attracting
attention. We are indebted to her zeal and
untiring pen for many important facts bearing
on the subject of free produce. Although we
do not attach the first importance to this
branch of the Anti-Slavery movement, we
readily lay befoie our readeis such facts on
the subject as may be found in the following
article.— f. d.
Cotton from PoRT'N-ATAj..«-’An influen
tial colonist and mercantile gentleman, has
addressed a letter, of which the following is
a copy, to an inhabitant of Newcastle-upon-
Tyne; and as the subject of his communica
tion is of vital importance to a great staple
manufacture of this country, we (Gateshead
Observer) gladly give it insertion in our
journal:
Port Natal, March 1, 1850.
Knowing that you take a great interest in
the production of cotton produced by free
labor, I have thought that a few lines from
Natal would not be unacceptable; though I
am sorry to slate, as far as that article is con
cerned, it is rather retrograding than pro
gressing and yet I am more than ever con
vinced that cotton can be produced here equal
if not superiot to any in the world, and that,
if cultivated on a proper scale, by persons
who understand the climate, and the peculiar
nature of the cotton plant, it would yield a
a large return for capital employed, besides
throwing open a most beautiful country to the
enterprise of. thousands of European families,
who, through the means of this one article
alone, would find employment at iheir various
callings. But lam grieved beyond measure
to see vessel after vessel arriving w r ith emi
grants, most or all of whom are totally unfit
for an undertaking like this. To give you a
slight idea of the absurd notions formed in
England by many, I may just mention that it
is not an uncommon thing to find individuals
provided with agricultuaal implements, and,
actually, on their arrival here, have not the
means to pay for the conveyance of them to
their land. They appear never to have
thought that implements were of no use with
out cattle, and that months must elapse before
they could expect a return for their labor.—
Then there are certain difficulties that dis
courage otheu—such as being afraid of not
getting native labor. All new comers find a
difficulty in getting natives. They spoil them
in the first instance by over-kindness; and,
not knowing their natural character, soon find
themselves without a servant. So convinced
am I that cotton will be a profitable article to
cultivate, besides the immense good that will
result from it in a variety of ways, 1 have
thought that should you know any party that
would be inclined to invest from one thousand
to fifteen hundred pounds in this way, leaving
the entire management to myself, i would, on
certain conditions, give up the business I have
rn town, lei my premises, and devote the
whole o, tSy Uib-> tu j energy to this one ob
ject. This, lam certain OT, <r* m. a one j
successful, enterprising individual can show
good returns for his mit'ay, there will soon be!
plenty of followers; but for tiew comers with
little or no means—no experience of the place)
—and everything new about them, the diffi-j
culties appear insurmountable. Should mv
offer be approved of by any of your friends,
my proposition would be this:—That not lessi
than one thousand (or, rather, say fifteen*
hundred) pounds should be placed in the!
Cape of Good Hope bank at my disposal, for)
me to draw as occasion may require, for this
efipecial purpose, purchasing land and carry
ing on the plantation.
Tho finest land for cotton is on the other
side of theUmgeni river, where at the pres
ent moment, I could purchase for cash the
finest cotton land foi 10s. or 15s. per acre.
The land I would of course have registered
m the party’s name who advanced the cash.
In fact, all business of importance, such as
yearly or half-yearly accounts and reports, I
should wish to pass through the hands of Mr.
D. D. Buchanan, who is an attorney of the
highest respectability here, or any other per
son that might be thought fit, and would be
satisfactory to all parties. 1 should wish to
purchase not less than six or eight hundred
acres. From one tree of the green-seed va
riety that I have growing in anything hut a
good situation neqr my house, I have gather
ed full six and a half pounds annually, for
the last ihree years:—about three pounds the
first year.* Six pounds of cotton, as it
comes from the tree, yields two pounds of
cotton. One thousand such trees can
be grown on an acre of ground; and there
must be some cause for it, if they should on
ly produce half that quantity. However, for
safety, I shall make my calculation on one
pound only of clean cotton, instead of more
than two; though I am persuaded that where
there is a right selection of soil, and the
seasons are favourable for both crops, two
•housand pounds of clean coton will some
times be produced to the acre. Tou yiust
observe, that all the principal expenses fall
in the first year. Afterwards, the profits, I
trust, will be very great, These expenses,
however, all tend to increase the value of the
properly. lam not an advocate for putting
up temporary buildings, but should use rough
stone, procured on the spot, and should wish j
to have fluted galvanized iron for the roof far-j
warded whhout delay, as it cannot always he
procured here. There are also some other
articles which there might be a saving in
shipping direct to Natal. No person in
Natal lias taken moie interest in this subject
than myself; and should any of your friends
be inclined to further the cultivation of free
labour cotton, and the interests of Natal, 1
am prepared to give good security, if requir
ed, lor the due fulfilment, on my pait, of the
engagement, having valuable property both
in town and near the town. Should my of
fer be accepted, the first year I should ex
pect a salary of .£l5O. After the first year
i shall be contented with half the net profits.
Allowing £SOO for the purchase of land
I have calculated that there would not be
much less than seven or eight hundred pounds
expenses the first yedr; after which the
expenses would be trifling—servants, wa
ges almost the only thing. The first
year’s crop T calculate at 4oz. clean cotton to
each tree; which, at 4d. per lb., supposing I
should get 200 acres sown, the return would
he £833 os. Bd., oi £4 3s, 4d. per acre.
The second year, 200 acres, or two hundred
thousand trees at one pound each, at 4d, per
lb., would be total value of cotton £3333 9s
Bd. This, you will observe, is considerably
less tli3n halt what one tree produced—l
mean in proportion. I will leave this subject
now to your consideration.
A specimen of the “green seed cotton”
enclosed in this letter is valued by a Liver
pool broker at Is. per lb.
ID 3 Lopez, the runaway General, is at
Washington.
The Death«Peualty in Michigan.
Ihe Prisoner’s Friend for August is be
fore us. It is, as usual, full of interesting
matter. The melancholy case of Professor
W ebster occupies a large shaie of the present
number. We copv the following correspond
ence from the ‘‘Friend” as a satisfactory re
ply to those who will contend that respect for
human life by the government begets con
tempt for human life in society:
Mr. Editor: In a recent conversation up
on the Death-Penalty, and advocate of the
satqe, staled as an argument in its favor, that
in Michigan the experiment of its abolution
had been tried and proved a failure, the Leg
islature having been competed to restore the
penalty, in consequence of the alarming in
crease of capital crime resulting from its ab
olition. Doubting the correctness of this
statement, I immediately addressed a note to
the Secretary of State of Michigan, request
ing information upon the subject. Believing
that Ifis highly satisfactory reply may seive
to correct a great deal of misapprehension, I
hand it to you for publication.
Truly yours,
A. G. CAMPBELL.
.Lowell, May 11, 1850.
‘Office of the Secretary of State,
Lansing, Mich., May 6, 1850. t
Alfred Gibbs Campbell Esq. —Dear 'Sir:
Your favor of the 11th ult., is before me. You
desire to ascertain whether our State has ie
turned to the practice of the death-penalty,
also my opinion as to the general sentiment
of our State with our present experience on
this subject.
In reply, I would state that our State has
not returned to the practice of the death-pen
alty. It has repealed at the time of the Re
vision of our Statutes of 1846. There has
been but one attempt to revive the law, that
was in 1848, I think, and it signally failed.
On examination of the journal, I cannot find
that the question was ever brought to a vote
in either house.
In reply to your second interrogatory, I
have no hesitation in giving it as my opinion
that the general sentiment of our State is be
yond all question very nearly unanimous in
favor of our present laws on that subject. In
deed, in the whole range of my acquaintance,
I do not know one individual in favor of a re
turn to that practice. I am certain I have
beard no one ex pi ess himself in favor of such
a change.
I am not aware of there being any statistics
on file on this office bearing upon this ques
tion, By coincidence merely, there were
committed in Wayne county within two vears
from the revision, Jour murders. The Grand
Jury of that county memorialized the Legisla
ture in favor of a repeal. Counter memorials
showed most conclusively that the increase of
capital crime, startling indeed as it was, could
not have had any connection with the change
in the law; as in three out of the four eases
certainly, the criminals knew not of the
change. Since that time three certainly has
been no increase of capital crime.
Very respectfully yours,
C. 11. Taylor, Sec. of State.
From the Liberator.
Anniversary of Emancipation in the
West Indies.
The twelfth Anniveisary of West Indie
Emancipation was commemorated in Wor
cester, on the Ist inst., by appropriate exer
cises at the City Hall. The meeting, which
was large, was called to order by Francig
Jackson of Boston, and was organized bv the
choice of the following officers:
PRESIDENT,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON of Boston.
Vice Presidents —Edward Quincy of Bos
ton, Francis Jackson of Boston, Bourne
Spooner ol Plymouth, Effingham L. Capron
of Worcester, William Whiting of Concord,
George S. Flint of Rutland, Daniel Mitchell
of Pawtucket, R. 1., E. D. Draper of Mil
ford, Alfred Wyman of Westminster, and
James B. Whitecomb of Brooklyn, Ct.
Secretaries— Samuel May, Jr., of Leices
ter, and Benjamin Snow. Jr., of Fitchburg.
Mr. Garrison, on taking the chair, made
some introductory remarks, referring chiefly to
the great event this day celebrated, the peace
ful emancipation of near one million of slaves,
accomplished without the shedding of one
master s blood or the destroying of one plan
tation, without any act of violence, or anv
civil commotion.—When he concluded, the
audience united in singing a Jubilee Son<r.
Samuel May, Jr., followed with some
statements in relation to the business concerns
of the meeting, and then proceeded to lay
before the audience evidence of the good
effects of West India Emancipation, elicited
by Geo. W. Alexander, in his recent visit to
those Islands.
Charles C. Burleigh followed with a most
eloquent impressive exposition of the
working of Emancipation in the West Indies.
Rev. Mr. Carpenter, of Bristol, England
was then introduced by the and*
made a very appropriate, spirited-, and pointed
address, in the course of which he made said
work with the arguments of the opponents of
emancipation, as drawn from its operation in
the West Indies. He had heard it said by
them, that lamaica was not so well cultivated
as it ought to be, but he had also heard it said,
that the emancipated slaves weie not the
laziest people there were in that Island. In
allusion to ihe argument, that the exports of
the West Indies had diminished, he said he
had a great jealousy of exports, and when he
saw pigs imported into his own city of Bristol,
he saw in that, not an evidence of the re
dundance of pigs in Ireland, but of the
suffer ngs ot ihe people from whose necessi
ties they were drawn. When he concluded
another Hymn was sung.
Mr. Carpenter again rose, and said the
tune that had just been sung, was one of their
National Anthems—they call it “God save
ihe Qeen”— we cal! it “America”— there is
another tune called Emancipation, sun® this
day in chorus, by 800,000 souls, and he hoped
the time was near at hand, when it would be
sung by three millions in our own land.
Charles L. Remond then made some hope
ful remarks on the indications of the times
and the meeting adjourned till 2 o'clock.
In the afternoon, able and eloquet speech
rs were made by Edmund Quincy, Wendell
Phillips, Stephen S. Foster, and J. B. Syme,
in which the question of Emancipation was
placed upon its true ground of an absolute;
tight on the part of the oppressed, and an ab
solute duty on the part ot the oppressor, and
of those, who have ths power of contributing
j^ereto.
Slave Property. —The following state
ment made by a Baltimore correspondent of
the Tribune, illustrates an influence at workjiu
the Middle slave States, more potential than
abolition lectures or incendiary pamphleteer
ing, to effect the rapid extinction of slavery
within their borders. Slaveholders cannot
afford to hold property long which has to be
insured at such premiums:
“The papers from Western Virginia,
Western Maryland and the Eastern Shore
counties; teem with advertisements ef re
wards for runaway slaves. The difficulty ot
recapturing runaways has increased the
amount generally offered vety much, S3OO
and 350 each being very common. am
informed by a slave-catcher and dealer that
ihe loss of slave property this spring an-i
summer, from Maryland and Virginia,
ger than at any former peiiod. He showed
me a list of advertisements he had arranr-ed
in his note book for reference, offerino °re
s*l2 000 e Tt! Uy on< 7 an oun ir, g to about
ii?°’-,T he lotal va ue of this number
would be fully $50,000. A snug item for
slave-owners, to post to ‘profit and loss ac
count, a great majority of them never beinjr
reeovered.”— N. Y. Evangelist.
ID 3 Vm. Lloyd Garrison says, 4t Tlie
specious, dictatorial, clap-trap, audaaious and
profligate speech of Clay on the Compromise
Bin, demonstrates that the. Old Harry i*
still in him!” 3
Important from Washington
ARREST AND IMPRISONMENT OF
WILLIAM L, CHAPLIN
The announcement that William L. Chap
lin has been arrested, and is in prison in the
Capital, on a charge of assisting slaves to
escape fiom slavery, will fall with stunning
effect upon vast numbers of the people of
New York and New England, among whom
he has long been distinguished as a talented
and devoted advocate of Human Rights.
V\ e have not yet obtained the particulars
of this appalling and heart-sickening affair.—
Enough, however, is known to assure us that
another victim has fallen into the revengeful,
cruel and remorseless jaws of Slavery and
that that victim is none other than the tal
ented, warm-hearted and zealous friend of
humanity just named.
His case comes home to every heart. We
have seen him, heard him, and know him
and if our brother had been seized at our
side by a ferocious tiger, we could not feel
more keenly than we now do for William L.
Chaplin. He is charged with a high enme
—even that of delivering the spoiled out of
the hand of the spoiler—of ptactically re
membering those in bonds as being bound
with them”—doing to others as he would be
done unto—all high crimes in this Christian
and Democratic country, for which it is al
most impossible to find adequate punishments.
As to what will be the fate of Mr. Chaplin,
the prospect seems now too dark—too fearful
to contemplate. There is every reason to
believe that he will be made another meal to
feed the hungry and blood-thirsty revenge of
the slaveholding South. He is too distin
guished a mark to be allowed to escape the
inhuman clutches of slavery. Yet something
ought to be done. If money can bail him, it
should be forthcoming. But if this will not
do, there should be«petitions circulated in all
directions, remonstrating against his impris
onment on such a charge; and the authorities
of the District of Columbia should be waited
upon by thousands, and respectfully informed
that if the prison doors are not thrown
open, the walls of their infernal slave dun
geons shall be stormed. The time has
come for action. It remains to be seen
whether there is sufficient manhood and heroic
love of liberty left at the North to meet the
present trying crisis. The ground which
every right-minded man will take in respect
'to the matter, is this that William L.
Chaplin is guiltv of no crime that if he
assisted slaves to escape, as charged, he has[
but performed a highly meritorious and Chris
tian act; that instead of being branded with
the infamy of a slave-stealer, his name should
be made glorious as a man-restorer; that
they alone are nren-stealers who hold, buy
,and sell men, women aud children as property.
The imprisonment of Wm. L. Chaplin
otlghv* arouse the dormant energies of
every ln 'he land. It should call
forth one simultaneous and burst
of unconsolabSe lament and settled indignation.
We cannot write about it; the event is
too painful, too monstrously cruel, and de- 1
mands something more than longue or pen
can express. We wish to consult, co-operate,
unite, act, do something which shall look like
saving a noble man from the wolfish and
bloody prowlers of slavery.
To this end we shall go, and do now call
upon all in whose hearts there is one spark of
human freedom, to go to Cazenoviaon Wen's
day and Thursday next. We expect to meet
there one of the mightiest anti-slavery gath
erings that ever congregated in the State of
2Sew York. —f. d.
[From the Liberty Party Paper.]
Great Meeting of Runaway Slaves at
Cazenovia.
Those thailhave escaped from Slavery,
and those who mean to escape from it, and
those who think it right for men to escape
from it, and those who will help men to es
cape from it, and all men who think Human
Rights are the true capital of the country,
will meet in caucus, at Cazenovia, on the 21st
and 22d days of August, in respect to the
call of Gerrit Smith, President of the N. Y.
.-State Vigilance Committee.
There let Douglass and Ward, and Bibb,
Milton Clark, and 11. Box Brown,
and William and Ellen Ciaft, &c., &c., who
are clea't of the chains with which Southern
villainy bo'und their infant limbs, meet the
panting fugitives who have just escaped, and
all together, }>vith their white sympathisers,
let them mingle their congratulations, and
engage in wise council to break every yoke,
to free every slave in Jhis outraged country!
Come up to Cazenovia on the 21st, and stay
through the 22d, and what true democ
racy, and Jrue politics are, ye deluded parti
sans of the State! And ye demagogues and
deceivers of the people, come, and look on,
and in the light of nobleness and true virtue,
which will be there, see your own meanness,
and demerits, and leatn to leap up from the
degradation of the places you occupy, or
aspire to occupy, to true manhood!
This should be a great gathering. And
from the making for it, from the
novel character, and signal ability of the per
sons to be present, it. cannot but be a great
meeting! The mighty minds and great
hearts' of the North, which have broke from
the shackles of fa se Religion and false
Government at the Noith, will meet there
the rinrgeu bodies and daring spirits, which
Slavery’couM not subdue, which broke its
shackles at th'v?* South, and plunged into the
mountains, and streams, and lakes, and
wildernesses, and found a way here, where a
Slave is hailed as a man, and embraced as a
There has never been such a Convention
before called in this country, not in the world
perhaps. It is not long that it has been safe
to hold such a Convention. It is safe now,
thank God, in spite of Daniel Webster, and
Moses Stuart, and others like them! Let
Daniel Webster, and Moses Stuart, and
others like them, come too, if they dare, and
attempt to capture, hind, and give back to a
Chnstless heathenism the emancipated bodies
and spirits which will be there congregated.
Let them come and dare to interrrupt the
deliberations of this Convention, under a
pretend ot a law or Constitution, that over
rides Heaven’s law.?, and asserts that those
noble spirits are the property of men, who,
Tby virtue of law or constituCpn, may ride
them through the world, and bruijfy them,
erase God’s image which he has put upon
them, and place their own names there, and
turn them into their fields, and stalls, and
kennels, as they do their hogs, and horses,
and dogs!
Should they come, we think they will cor
xect their notions of law, in the face of the
flashing eyes, and burning hearts, and strong
frames, and iron sinews, there assembled
about the body of F.reedom!
Let the Senators and Congressmen also
come, who propose to compromise the rights
and liberties of the glorious hand of Slaves
who shall collect there, and in the presence of
the' T self-emancipated bodies, and their faces
Heav.en-lit with the alternative “Liberty or
Death 2nd l ie P re senceof the old body
guards of Ai3 erican freedom, who will be
gathered around fhem, decide whether they
can again, by any agreement, plan or com
promise, lay Liberty in a quiet grave any
where in this country!
But we especially urge them to come, to
lay on the altar of Freedom every principle
or prejudice they have ever cherished against
the equal brotherhood of man—to learn of a
certainly that any compact men may make
against such brotherhoed, will but increase
the agitation it is intended to quell, and that
legal Slavery is the foulest falsehood ever
uttered under Heaven!
Villauous Post Masters.
Post masters should be truthful and trust
worthy men. If the following facts be true,
J. M. Rice, Post Master of Phoenix, is far
trom being a truthful and trustworthy man.
Indeed a man capable of such small wicked
ness is much to be pitied. Such aie the men
in power tho’. He represents his principal
the head of hia party. Nevertheless, such
heads don’t like their agents to manifest their
integrity by open falsehood, aud when they
do so, out of the ordinary track of party
villany, they disown thes agents, and tun l
them out of office. So ought Mr. Fillmore
to do with J. M. Rice, Post Master of Phoe
nix, if the following letters be true. If Fillmore
does not ship him, he will be considered as
approving the falsehood and fraud attempted
on Dea. Chaffee, ourselves, and* the public.
For the Liberty Party Paper.
Gilbert’s Mills, July 22d, 1850.
Friend Thomas:—l saw in the last num
ber of your paper, a short article from a Post
Master of our town, ordering the discontinu
ance of the Liberty Party Paper, sent to Dea.
Chaffee; and giving as reasons, that ‘‘he
never ordered it sent to him, and refuses to
take it from the office.” And furthermore
that “he prefers to take a paper that has some
regard for truth, not filled with libels on our
best citizens.” You very wisely ask, “was
that letter dictated by Dea. Chaffee, or is it
the pioduction of the Post Master himself?”
The facts in the case are these. Mr.
Chaffee has taken some three or four papers
from the office, and read them. He says “he
likes the paper very much, believes it takes
“right grounds, &c.” But feeling unable
to subscribe and pay for the paper just now;
and being assured by the Post Master that if
he took them from the office, he would be
holden for the pay, therefore simply tequest
ed him to send a uumber back, telling him at
the same time “he likes the paper first tale.”
Not expecting however, that the Post Mas
ter (an ultra whig of course) would give his
own opinion of the paper and make him re
sponsible for them.
In view of these facts, it does seem strange,
that a man should thus attempt to injure a
paper, so completely and entirely devoted to
the cause of truth and tighteousnesa. While
we too prefer an editor who stands by the
right and tiuth, we should also “prefer” a
Post Master who “has some regard for the
truth,” and who is not so strongly pledged to
the support of a wicked pro-slavery party,
that he is unwilling that a thoroughgoing
anti-slavery paper should be taken from his
office.
Hoping to see no more “libels” in the
Liberty Party Paper, we shall yet deem it
safe to remain a reader and sustainer.
Yours for the right,
H. N. GILBERT.
Since we received the above, we have re
ceived the following fiom Dea. Chaffee him
self. We give them both to the public. No
wonder the people are indignant when such
men as Rice hold places of power. They
are not safe in the light of these facts. How
much better Post Master would Dea. Chaffee
make, or H. N. Gilbert? I'lieymust be post
poned for such ftien as Rice. There is the
contrast between Whigs ami Liberty Party
men the country over.
Pennelville, July 24th, 1850.
Mr. Editor; —I see in the 51st, No. of the
Liberty Party Paper, by J. *M. Rice, Post
master of Phcenix, it is stated as fol'ovvs:
“Dea. Chaffee wishes the Liberty Party
Paper discontinued, he never ordered it sent
to him, and refuses to take it from the office.
He prefers to take a paper that haa
gard for truth, not filled with libels on our
best citizens.”
lam the Dea. Chaffee referred td. I told
Mr. Rice, I was suited with the paper, but
under present circumstances, felt unable to
pay for it, on account of los3 of property,
&c.
I am a Liberty Party man, and will advo
cate its principles. I think Mr. Rice has
been very unkind to me, and to yourself like
wise. I hope he will write no more stuff
unrequested.
Yety respectfully yours, &c.,
JOSEPH CHAFFEE.
[From the Hamilton Intelligencer.]
The Fourth Frederick Douglass, the
Fugitive Slave—His Eloquence— Ilis
History.
Cincinnati, July 17, 1850.
Dear Intelligencer: Since my last
communication with you, the great anniversa
ry qf American Independence, the ever-mern
oißble 4th of this month, has come and gone,
with about the usual effervescence of patriot
ism, and, if anything, more than the ordinary
waste of gunpowder on the part of the boys.
For myself, I took advantage of the holiday,
to escape as far as I could from the dust,
heat and tumult of the city, and go out into
the woods —decidedly the best place to spend
v day when the mercury stands at 95 degrees
or more. There are a good many delightful
places “of nestling green” in our neighbor
hood—the beauty of which our scenery hun
ters do not seem to appreciate altogether,
for the teason chiefly that they ate too near
home. These make up to the people iri part,
the wants of gardens ox parks in the center of
the city, and are very much fiequented dur
ing the summer months.
Appropriately at this lime, amid the gener
al rejoicing at the advent of Independence
Day—like the slave behind the car of a R
man conqueror in his hour of triumph, with
his boding cry Thou too are
erick Douglass, the -well-known fugitive
slave, and pronounced to be one of the most
eloquent pf men, has been making a sojourn in
the city, and lecturing on the subject of sla
very and kindred ones, to large audiences,
and I had the pleasure of hearing him on one
of these occasions. I was a little disap
pointed for a few minutes after he began.
There was but little in bis appearance and
manner that indicated anything above medi
diocrity, and I have seen many colored men
who were much more prepossessing. His
articulation was slow for some little time, and
apparently labored—not evidences, certainly,
of the orator. However this did not last
long, and he soon got fairly afloat and before
the wind, when he seemed to be suddenly
transformed, and for nearly two hours this
man —beyond all cavil or question one of the
most extraordinary of the age—poured forth
a perfect torrent of eloquence, invective and
satire, such as I never had the fortune to listen
to befoie. He gave an account of his visit to
England, which happened about the time that
the Evangelical Alliance of ridiculous memory
vasin session there. He gave the whole
history of that godly assemblage and held the
mirrior up to some of those reverend advo
cates of American slavery, who went there
wiili the determination to prevent any decided
action of the Alliance on the subject of the
“domestic institution” by which slaveholders
should be excluded from its privileges. His
description of the urfily in which these
brethren dwelt for a few days, before the
vexed question was brought up; of their beau
tiful professions of Christian love for one an
other; and how they endeavored to cast aside
all inferior questions about the sins of the
world, and fix there whole soui3 on the glor
ious idea of union—“a union,” said ho, in his
eainest and eloquent way, “without human
ity, without morality, or without leligion”—
was most laughable, and indeed the whole
discourse was a masterpiece of dry humor
and terrible satire.
As people generally seem ignorant ol
-Douglass and his history, 1 will take the opt
portunity to relate in a few words what I
heard of it since lie has been here. He was
a slave in Baltimore, where he picked up
j Irom the boys in the street the letters of the
alphabet, and he learned to put them together,
when he got hold ot the Columbian Orator,
the first book he had ever had ir. his hands,
and he was then giown. In that book, no
doubt, his first lessons in eloquence were
learned, and his first ideas of freedom obtain
ed which he soon put in ptactice; and fled
from a yoke more galling than ever Roman or
I urk imposed, to England; and now, with no
other resources than those that God and Na
ture and his own indomitable soul afforded
him, he has risen up, asserted his manhood,
and his claims and those of all his unfortunate
race, to freedom and the enjoyment of their
rights, with a power and cogency equalled
perhaps, but not often surpassed. I do not
hesitate to call him a most eloquent man, and
more than that an earnest truthful and whole
souled one. It is surprising how he has ac
quired the use of our tongue so completely in
so short a time.—His language is entirely
lree from barbarism, and is full of strength
and elegance. I trust you and your fellow
ciziten? will have the opportunity of hearing
him before he returns home.
The people here intend to make some
demonstration of respect for the President, o
which i will tell you in my next.
Yours, PLINY.
More about the outrage committed upon
ns at Columbus, Ohio.
We clip the following from the Ohio
Standard:
Stage Co. and Frederick Doug
lass. —The Editor of the Summit Beacon has
been on a flying visit to our goodly city of
Columbus. He compliments the capital for
its enterprise and splendid improvements, and
says it “will stand forth the beauty of the
west and the pride of all Buckeyedom.”
But there was one dark shade cast over
this beautiful picture. While Mr. Teesdale
was in our city, he was present at the even
ing lecture of Frederick Douglass in the State
House where the latter was interrupted and
the auditory grossly insulted. After noticing
the mobbish proceedings at the State House,
Mr. Teesdale records another fact in rela
tion to the treatment of Douglass while here,
not heretotore adverted to in our paper.
We copy from the Peacon of the 54th ult.
“To crown all, it is said that the Ohio
Stage Co. refused the next morning to allow
Douglass a seat inside the Coach, although
the passengers unanin ously requested that he
be permitted to have one. Thev told him to
ride on the outside. He declined, having
paid for a seat inside. He then requested
the re-payment of his money, and we were
told that even that was refused For the
sake of all that is decent we hope the last
step was not persisted in. There is enough
ot crowning infamy in the first to cause the
Company to make a public disavowal of the
acts of their agent, if they were unauthor
ized.”
W« add that the Stage Co., through their
agents here, persisted in their refusal to re
fund the money, and that a suit is now pend
fng tor its recovery.
An Insuit, though not Inteuded
Mr. Badgei, last Friday, In the Senate,
made certain declarations, extremely offen
sive to his Northern Whig brethren. Thev
were in tact insulting, though he did not
mean them to be so.*
He took the ground that the true policy of
the South was to remain in the Union: for in
that connection it had sufficient power to pro
tect itself against all aggression. Though in
a minoiity, it had in its hands a most effective
means to bring the North to terms. North
ern men needed protection for their manu
factures. He was one who believed that
Congress had power to impose prohibitory or
protective duties to any amount, and he was
in favor of the policy of protection. But it
Northern men would insist upon forcing their
»«.;itinaentalii.ie«r, their notions about Slavery,
on the South, he now would give them fair
warning; their factories might decay; their
operatives might be turned out of employ
ment; their streets might be filled with able
bodied beggars, unable to maintain work:
they must ask no favors from him. Never
should his vote, or that of his colleague, and
he believed he might say the same of his
friends from Georgia, be given in support of
any measure to protect or foster Northern in
dustry.
We-cannot seethe wisdom of such a menace
as this—especially as more than one-half of
the Northern Senators ask no such protection,
their principles leaning to fiee trade.
But by iiis Whig associates from the
North, it must have been regarded as in
sulting: for it assumed that their opposition to
Slavery and ils extension yas either hypo
critical, or, if the offspring of an enlightened
moral sente, it might be overcome by an ap
peal to their ayarice.
Mr. Badger is a moderate man, and gen
erally courteous and good-tempered; but in
his instance, he strangely forgot himself, and
what was due to his political brethren.
We know not how far the capitalists of the
North may be prepared to gojbr the sake of
securing a Tariff that shall double their prof
its, but we know, that with the great majority
of the people of the North, opposition to the
extension of Slavery springs from a moral
principle, a religious sentiment, that can nei
ther be bribed nor intimidated. —N Era.
Emancipation in Jamaica —Mr. Alexan
der, the efficient and benevolent Secretary of
the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society,
has been on a visit to Jamaica, with a view
to ascertain the real effects which the emanci
pation has had upon the people. His testi
mony is that of an intelligent, sincere and
houorabie man, who has taken ample oppor
tunity to investigete, Whether emancipation
has been successful or not, the reader may
!udge lronx a single paragraph of a recent
letter:
“We have now been five weeks in Jamai
ca, during which time we have traveled over
a large part of the island, and are truly glad
to find the condition of planters, merchants,
and laborets better than we expected. That
of the latter especially is iu general one of
much comfort. This fine island is not at present
hastening to ruin, notwithstanding the severe,
trial to which it has been exposed by the
cruel, injurious, and inconsistent Sugar Act
of 1846. Ir has been delightful to us to see
the large number of the emancipated peasant
ry and their children who are brought under
a moral and religious influence, by the good
men who are scattered over Jamaica. There
can, 1 think, be little or no doubt that.pi.pula
tion is increasing, now that the dead weight
of slavery is removed, and there are many
indications of an increase of cultivation, which
will, unless I am much mistaken,. be very
shoitly manifested by laiger exports, unless
checked by had legislation, or the operation
of the decreasing scale of duties at which
foreign sugar is to be introduced for consump
tion in Biitain.” N. 1. Evangelist.
Colored People in Ohio.—A memorial,
numerously signed by citizens of Hamilton
county, was presented, in the Ohio Constitu
tional Convention during its recent session,
which prays that in the new Constitution pro
vision may be made for the removal of all
colored persons from that State. The reason
given is that the geographical position ot
Ohio makes the State the refuge of all the
fugitive and manumitted slaves of a number
of Southern States, in consequence whereof
the colored population increases more rapibly
than in any other free State. The memorial
says in the year 1800 there were hut 500
negroes in the States of Ohio, Indiana, and
Illinois; but in the year 1848 they we e esti
mated at 30,000 in the State of Ohio alone.
Speaker Cobb has published a long letter,
approving of Clay’s Compromise,
August Elections.
1 he returns from the North Carolina elec
tion, which look place on the first instant,
indicate the success of the Locofoco candi
date for Governor, and a Locofoco majority in
the Legislature. In 1848, Gov. Manly suc
ceeded by only 874 majority, but the Slate
soon after gave Gen. Taylor 8,650 majority.
Ihe Slavery question has been involved in
this canvass, and the most inflammatory ap
peals made to slaveholders to vote against
Manly because he was in favor of the ad
mission of California and New Mexico. If
lie is defeated, his defeat will be owing to the
tact that he maintained a position unsatisfac
tory to the Slavery exfensionists. On the
day before the election, the Raleigh Stand
ard, a rabid Locofoco and Slavery organ said:
“REMEMBER, friends of Southern rights,
that Gov. Manly has declared himself, at
Marion and elsewhere in the west, D3=“in
favor of the immediate admission of Califor
nia and New Mexico as States, with Consti
tutions prohibiting, We make
the statement on unquestionable authority
and ate responsible for the facts.
“Are the people of North Carolina with
Governor Manly on this subject? Ifthey are,
let them talk no longer of defending their
just rights as involved in this Slavery 5 ques
tion; but let them bow down at once, and re
ceive the yoke and the lash of the hands of
Northern aggression and Free soil arrogance.
“On this subject COL. REID IS
He has uniformly avowed himself in favorof
keeping out these upstart sovereignties, un
til justice is done to the South on the Slavery
question; and he would-keep them out indefi
nitely, rather-than sea them admitted at the
expense ofonr rights and interest, and in de
fiance of our earnest warnings and remnn
strances. Charles Manly’s re-election,there
fore, lEr'will be the triumph of the cause of
California and New Mexico tn North Carolina
and will be hailed in all the free States as a
Free soil victory in the very bosom of the
Siates.cQl Remember that, slaveholders of
N. Carolina, when you go up to the ballot
box to deposit your votes.
Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, lowa Ala
bama, and Arkansas, held their elections on
Monday.—All of them, except Kentucky,
are decided Locofoco States. We have
seen no signs of excitement in any of them
except Missouri, and there it results wholly
from the quarrel between the friends and en
emies of Col. Benton. We shall so soon
have the results, that speculation would be
useless.— Democrat.
F*rst of Aug’»st.
West India Emancipation was duly cele
brated on the first irftt., on the grounds of the
late James Adams’ Estate, now occupied by
Reece C. Fleeson, Esq., adjoining Green
wood gardens below Manchester. A boat ran
during the day every hour back and forth be
tween the ground and the city; and omni
buses left Alleghany every half hour, all
crowded. There was fine music, crowds of
well dressed people of every shade of com
plexion, and abundance of refreshments. The
colored people deserve great credit for the
spirit in which the affair was conducted. The
speakers appeared to be all colored. Our
townsman, J. B. Vashon, delivered an address,
which we did not hear, for it closed as we ar
rived; but we heard patt of a speech from
a colored Episcopal preacher, that was char
acterized by much good sense, good humor
and sound philosophy; and all appealed in fine
spirits when we left.— Saturday Visiter.
Abducting Slaves.—An old negro named
Benj. Savage, for some' years past a barber
in St. Louis, was examined before the Re
corder upon a charge of abducting slaves from
tneir masters; and in default ofs 5,000 bail
was committed to jail, f rom the confes
sions of Savage tu a perion who represented
himself as a abolitionist and desirous of af-
fording facilities in his operations, it appears
that nearly all the negroes who, for years
past, have run away from this city, have
passed under the jgency and direction of Sav
age, who has emissaries to take them in
charge as soon as they aie landed in Illinois;,
and run them through to Chicago and Cana
da. The extent of his operations is unknown
but presumed to be extensive. Savage made
no de lienee to the charge, and was committed
to jail to await his trial.— St. Louis Rqt. 25th.
Slave Escaped.—A correspondent of the
Boston Bee, states that a valuable negro,
who had been at work as a blacksmith on the
dry dock at Pensacola arrived at Portsmouth,
N. H., on the 29th ult., in a vessel from that
place. Letters have been sent to Portsmouth
to detain the black in order that he might be
returned, and the pilots and others were on
the look-out for him. But some persons got
wind of the matter, and on the arrival of the
vessel went down to hei, in the lower harbor,
to obtain possession of the negro, but were
resisted by the captain and were forced to
leave. They then procured a warrant for
assault and batteiy, went down the second
lime with an officer, arrested the captain, and
summoned the negro as a witness. As soon
as they reached the city, the captain was suf
fered to go at large, and the slave was taken
care of by his friends. This affair created
coii3ideiahle excitement.
Washington, July 30, 1850.
“The four negro domestics of Mr. Toombs
of Georgia, made a stampede night before
last, and left the family [to cook their own
breakfast yesterday morning. Bad for Mr.
Toombs, and bad for the Abolitionists!”—
Cor. N. Y. Herald.
Why had for either! We think it is good
for both! Let those cook the breakfast who
own it. The slaves have been cooking and
feeding Toombs king enough with no break
fast they can call theirs. VVe hope to see Mr.
Tcomb’s slaves at our Convention in Caze
novia! We want to see the flood gates open,
and the Slaves rushing in that direction. It
is time they all had started already. Let
them come along!— L. P. Paper.
A Family Emancipated.—Othello Rich
ards, a worthy colored brother, and local
preacher, some time since visited this part of
the country, to obtain aid towards delivering
his wife and family from the bondage of sla
very. In a letter just received from him he
says; “On the 24th of June I finished the
great task that I had on hand. Thank the
good Master he has done great things for
me. I have bought iny wife and five chil
dren. I gave for them $1,115. and for my
daughter Caroline $475. And, thank the
Lord, in a lew daysl expect to start, with the
entire family, to the land of my forefathers, to
preach Christ to the people. —Christian Ad
vocate.
Frederick Douglass is in >ur city lectur
ing to large audiences. He h the most elo
quent speaker we have heard; calls down
thunders of applause, as much by his manner
as his matter. His oratory, like all that is
genuine, is the natural offspring of intenso
leeling. Coming from the hean it goes to
the heart, with almost unerring certainty.
We learn he is to remain here until the first
of August lecturing, and canvassing for the
“North Star.” —Pittsburgh Visiter.
The wealth of Sir Robert Peel was so great
that the duty of tax on the prvhate of his will,
amounted to sixteen thousand pounds and ten
i housand on his legacies; giving to the re
venue of Great Britain one hundred and twen
ty-five thousand dollars for this year. The
parliament has decreed, and public spirit has
promoted a monument to this statesman in
Westminster Abbey.
ID 3 Gen. Green, who has just returned
from California, has a male and female griz
zly bear of the Sierra Nevada which, if he
succeeds in bringing them alive to the Atlan
tic States, will be a curiosity indeed. The
giizzly bear attains the enormous weight of
2500 pounds,
To the Friends of Freedom in Rhode-
Island,
The time for our Annual Fair is drawing
near. It is well known to vnu that this is
our only dependence for funds to carry on tin
necessary Anti-Slavery movement in oui
State. Remembering your liberality in times
past, we make bold once more to solicit your
aid. We do this the more freely, knowing
that you are w tiling for an opportunity to
“help the cause along.” We trust you are
inquiring, “What more can I*do?” In this
way, friends, by contributing to our Annual
Fair, you may assist the cause of Freedom
and do more for Humanity. Yet there are
bondmen, who are crying to us for help.
W e are ever ready to give them our sympaA
ihics; but they need something more substan
tial. When they come to us from their pris
on-houses, something more than sympathy
and good wishes is needed to feed and clothe
them, until such times as they can feed and
clothe themselves. This substantial, tangible
aid, is what we now give you an opportunity
to furnish.
This manner of raising help is such, that
all who are disposed to assist, can avail them
selves of it. Those who cannot contribute
money, can give us their time and labor, both
in soliciting contributions from others, and
manufacturing articles for sale. Anything
we can turn into money, will be acceptable—
especially provisions for our refreshment ta
bles. Almost every person has something
which can be contributed. Friends, will you
let us have it! No matter how small it may
be; if useful, send it along. When you
iiave contributed, be so kind as to give us
your presence at the sale, bringing with you
as many of your friends as possible,
jr Our desire is to make the approaching sale
"more e;.ienryv« anti attiactivc than any former
one. It is for you to say whether it shall be.
This is our appeal. We wait for a response]
The sale will be held in this city on Wed
nesday, (commencement Day,) September
4th.
Contributions will be received at the Anti-
Slavery Office, and by the undersigned. If
sent to the Anti-Slaverv Office, please direct
Amarancy Paine, Anti-Slavery Office, Provi
dence, R. I.
Mary 11. Adams, East Greenwich,
Ann F. Westcott, N. Providence,
Susan R. Harris, Providence,
Mary R. Clarke,
Mary Steward,
Sarah R. Smith
Abby Thurber,
Lucrevia Francis
Elizabeth H. Smith,
Olive Maber,
Sophia D. Peck,
Parthena P. Janes,
Anna M. Scott
Hannah B. Red way
Sarah A. Foster
Abby Burgess, Pawtucket,
Sarah Gould, Coventry,
Mary Anthony,
Sarah J. Biown,
Mary W. Greene, Apponang,
Rebecca P. Aldrich, Greenville,
Betsey F. Lawton, Cliepachet,
Joanna C. Ballou, Cumberland,
Sophia L. Little, Newport,
Caroline A Robbins,
Frances Clark,
Priscilla Coffin, Olneyville.
To the Friends of impartial Education.
-The undersigned, on behalf of the colored
people, of the city ot Albany, do respectfully
represent,
That such of the colored children who, up
to March last, attended the different District
Schools of the city, were, by vote of the
School Commissioners, excluded from said
schools, and driven to the alternative of attend
ing one set apart for their exclusive use, or
li>uc ihc benefit of the public school act.
Feeling it to be wrong to permit our chil
dren to be thus driven from the schools of the
district in which they reside, without resist
ing it, and knowing that this new outrage
upon our rights, involved a principle which
we should battle against, and which should
lead us to unite our energies tor the purpose of
having our children educated, promiscuously
with other children: Therefore the people
came together, and resolved to protest against
the cause taken by the Board of Education, a
memorial was drawn up setting forth in te
3pectful terms, yet earnestly our views, and
feelings upon theii course, and our determina
tion to oppose them in their efforts to coloize
our children in a district school. They took
no notice of our appeal, and cur next resort
was, to apply to the Secy, of State, who de
cided he had no authoriry to interfere with
the commissioners, arrangement, thus we were
left to the counsel as to the manner best to
proceed in order to gain our rights, and after
several public meetings, concluded to test the
legality of their act by prosecuting them at a
court of law.
Our attorney and counselor, after carfully
examining the question in all its bearings,
have decided that there can be no doubt, as
to law, or precedent, but that a decision must
he given in favor of the prosecution.
The object of this appeal ts to get pecuniary
assistance front friends out of the city, believ
ing it to be such an object as we may with
propriety ask such aid, we do so hoping that
all who can give, will give something. Of
ourselves we ate not able (pecuniarily) to
conduct this suit; and so far, we yet lack
about two hundred and fifty dollars, and trust
no one who feels any interest in promoting the
principles of Free and Equal Education, will
permit our case to be forgoten.
w. p. Mclntyre.
Chairman Committee.
N. B. Please address—“ Fr. Van Yranken,
Treasurer, 31 State St., Albany, N. Y.”
Albany, Aug. 1850.
JG 3 Kossuth, the Hungarian leader,denies
that the, “Farewell Address,” so generously
republished in this country, was written by
him.
NEW MEXICO—ITS POPULATION.
The timely movement of the people
of New Mexico, by which they have
placed themselves in the position of
State sovereignty, enabling them to
demand as their constitutional right ad
mission into the Union, on a footing of
equality with the other States, seems
to give entire satisfaction to all save
the slavery-propagandists of the South
and their allies at the North. The for
mer class of opponents openly deny the
right of the people of New Mexico to
exclude slavery. The latter are not
exactly prepared to take this ground,
and are under the necessity of present
ing objections to the admission of the
new State, drawn from the character
of its population. Accordingly we are
told, by men professing to be the ad
vocates of ultra democracy and the lar
gest liberty that the Indian and Mexi
can voters of New Mexico are unfit for
political freedom, and the exercise of
the rights of self-government.
The delegate from New Mexico, N.
H. Smith estimates the population of
the territory in round numbers at 80,000
Of these some 15,000 are the descend
ants of the Aztecs, the semi-civilized
founders of those ancient cities, the
ruins f which, scattered over Mexico,
attest their original splendor and the
skill of their artificers. They are the
best farmers of New Mexico, living in
compact villages, surrounded by fruit
trees, gardens, and great fields of corn
and melons. The report 01 Lieut. J.
W. Albert,of his “Examination of New
Mexico, in the years 1846—’47,”
gives minute descriptions ofsome of the
principal Pueblo or Indian towns.
The houses are from two to three sto
ries high, firmly constructed of sun
dried bricks, or rough stone, plastered
with clay or the glittering white of sel
enite. Each village has its church, its
padre, an alcade, or chief magistrate.
The inhabitants are industrious, peace
able, and kind-hearted. They are
lovers of flowers and fruit trees, and
Lieut. Albert says he could at first
sight distinguish an Indian from a Span
ish town, by the green clump of trees
which enclosed it. They raise large
numbers of common domestic fowls,
and, like their Aztec ancestors, have a
fancy for taming birds. In dress and
appearance they scarcely suffer
in comparison with their Castilian
neighbors. Col. Emory, in his report
to the Secretary of War of his Explor
ations in New Mexico, gives the por
trait of an Indian woman, painted from
life, in the parlor of the Indian alcade
of Isoletta. It is a picture of remarka
ble beauty; the figure full and grace
fully moulded,and the features delicate
ly chiselled. The women are very tol
erable housewives, and our officers,
who during the late war had occasion
to partake of their hospitality, speak of
their well-loaded tables, their sponge
cakes, fine wheaten loaves, and do
mestic wines.
These Pueblo Indians were the first
to welcome the American troops to
New Mexico. Thoy disliked the Mex
ican rule, as it constantly reminded
them of the days of the Conquest and
the subjugation of their ancestors.
Colonel Emory does not hesitate to pro
nounce them “the best and most peace
able citizens of New Mexico.” It
would certainly be a most ungrateful
return to these people, if their State
should be denied a place in the Ameri
can Confederacy on the ground that
they are unworthy of the rights of citi
zenship.
As to the Mexican or Spanish part
of the population, they are, to say the
least quite as well fitted for the duties
and responsibilities of State govern
ment as the old inhabitants of Louisiana
and Florida, when those States were
taken into the Union. They are not an
enterprising hard-working people—the
majority content themselves with the
simple necessaries of life—they have
neither the thriftiness nor the shifti
ness of Yankees. They have a few
books, and no newspapers. Yet they
are by no means deficient in the rudi
ments of education; each village has its
padre, more or less learned, and Lieut.
Albert says it is rare to find a New
Mexican boy or girl who is unable to
read. Many of the old landed propri
etors are wealthy, living in a style of
rude magnificence: exhibiting upon
their tables massive silver plate, the
product of New Mexican mines and the
work of New Mexican artizans, and
hanging their walls with mirrors and
paintings. Their sons are educated in
the United States or Mexico. Several
have graduated at the St. Louis col
lege. Some of their private residences
are spacious, and not without archi
tectural pretension. That of Senor
Ortoiro, at Peralta, has a front pertail
or pi&zza of five hundred feet in length.
At Peralta Albuquerque, El Paso, Pad
dilla, and Bernallilo, our officers found
polite and intelligent society. All
classes are courteous and civil in their
social intercourse; crimes of the high
est degree are unfrequent, but, as in
all parts of Mexico, gaming is a prev
alent vice. In the Northern part of
the Territory there is a good deal of
intemperance, and the famous Taos
whiskey is too freely used. Lower
down, the light, delicious wines of E
Paso are in common use. The Amer
icans who visit them have the reputa
tion of hard drinkers, and when Col
Emory on one occasion, declined the
proffer of a bottle of whiskey, the as
tonished Mexican exclaimed, “What
no whiskey! then you are no Ameri
can!”
ELIZABETH.
To the restless, unsatisfied, grasp
ing Anglo-Saxon, the careless ease and
listleness and simple pastoral habits of
'the New Mexicans are well calculated
to awaken a feeling of contemptuous
superiority on the part of the former.
But it may be a question, after all,
whether the dolce far niente, the quiet
indifference of the one is n'ot as pro
ductive of happiness as the goading ir
ritability and habitual unrest of the
other.
livery year, the tide of emigration
setting towards us from the old world,
brings to our shores the poor, the ig
norant, and vicious, in numbers far
greater than the entire population of
New Mexico. These are incorporated
in our body politic, and in the new
Slates, and Territories, speedily be- j
miscellaneous.
BY J. G. WHITTIER.
come voters. We would not, if we
could, close our ports against them,
and refuse them an asylum in our,
broad territory. But who would notj
prefer to the refuse and squalid over
plus of crowded European cities, and
the annual disgorgements of their jails
and work-houses, the quiet home-lov
ing and pastoral life of New Mexico,'
who for the last quarter of a century
have exercised the rights of citizens ofj
a republic, apd whose insulated posi-i
tion, if it has deprived them in some
measure of the benefits of the general
progress of civilization, has at the same
time preserved them from some of the
worst vices which that civilization has
carried in its train.
But, as things are, what avail all
facts and argument on this point! It
is not manifest to the wisdcm of this
great Republic,in Congress assembled,
that these New Mexicans are incapa
ble of duly appreciating our cherished
institutions, inasmuch as they have
prohibited forever domestic slavery in
their State Constitution? They have
left out the key of the arch, they have
rejected “the corner-stone of the re
publican edifice.” They need to wait
yet longer in Territorial limbo—pros
elytes of the gate, tarriers at Jericho
until the beard of their democracy has
grown to cover the shame and folly ol
their anti-slavery partialities. Their
task just now is plainly that which
Senator Webster has assigned to
Massachusetts. They must “conquer
their prejudices.” Whenever they
shall have accomplished this, and are
ready to present themselves at the
door of the Union with a Constitution
modelled after that of South Carolina,
they will find their present opponents
transformed into chivalrous friends,
with whom a recognition of the rights
of the peculiar institution will prove as
the “open sesame” of Ali Baba did to
the Forty Theives. —National Era.
A FABLE.
In ancient times, when flowers, and
trees, and fairies were on speaking
terms, and all friendly together, one
fine summer’s day, the sun shone out
on a beautiful garden, where there
were all sorts of flowers that ye could
mention, and a lovely but giddy Fairy
went sporting about from one to the
other, (although no one could see her,
because of the sunlight,) as gay as the
morning lark; then says the Fairy to
the rose—“ Rose, if the sun was cloud
ed, and the storm came on, would you
shelter and love me still?” “Do you
doubt me?” says the rose, and redden
ed up with anger. “Lily,” says the
Fairy to another love, if the sun was
clouded, and a storm came on, would
ye shelter and love me still? Oh?
do you think I would change?” says
the lily, and she grew still paler with
sorrow. Tulip,” said the Fairy, “if
the sun was clouded, and a storm came
on, would ye shelter and love me still
Upon my word,” said the tulip, mak
ing a very gentlemanlike bow, Ye’re
the first lady that ever doubted my
constancy.” So the Fairy sported on,
joyful to think of her kind and bloom
ing friends. She revelled away for a
time, nnd-tlven she thought on the pale
blue Violet that was almost covered
with its broad green leaves; and al
though it was an old comrade, she
might have forgotten it, had it not been
for the sweet scent that came up from
the modest flower. “Uh, Violet,” said
the Fairy, “if the sun was clouded,
and a storm came on, would ye shelter
and love me still?” And the Violet
made answer, “Ye have known me
long, sweet Fairy, and in the first
spring-time, when there were but few
other flowers, ye used to shield from
the cold blast under my leaves; now
ye’ve almost forgotten me—but let it
pass—try my truth if ever ye should
meet with misfortune—but I sav noth
ing. Well, the at that,
and clapped her silvery wings, and
whisked singing off on a sunbeam; but
she was hardly gone, when a black
cloud grew up at the north all in a min
ute, and the light was shrouded, and
the rain fell in slashings like hail, and
away flies the Fairy to her friend the
Rose. “Now, Rose, says she, “(he
rain has come, so shelter and love me
still.” I can hardly shelter my own
buds,” said the Rose, “but the Lily
has a deep cup.” Well, the poor little
Fairy’swings were almost wet through,
but she got to the Lily. “Lily,” says
she, “the storm has come, so shelter
and love me still.” I am sorry,
says the Lily, but if I were to open
my cup, the rain would beat in like fun,
and my seed would be spoilt—the Tulip
has long leaves. Well, the Fairy
was down-hearted enough, but she
went to the Tulip, whom she always
thought a sweet-spoken gentleman.—
He certainly did not look as he had
done in the sun, but she waved her lit
tle wand, and, “Tulip,” said she, “the
rain and storm are come, and I am very
weary, but you will shelter and lovo
me still?” “Begone,” says the Tulip,
be off,” says he; a pretty pickle I
should be in, if I Jet every wandering
trollop come about me.”
Well, by this time she was tired,
and her wings hung dripping at her
back, wet indeed—but there was no
help for it, and, leaning on* her silver
wand, she limped off to the Violet;
and the darling little flower, with its
blue eye, that’s as clear as a kitten’s,
saw her coming, and never a word she
spoke, but opened her broad green
leaves, and took the wild wandering
little creature to her bosom, and 'dried
her wings, and then breathed sweetest
of perfumes over her, and sheltered
her until the storm was clean gone.—
Then the humble Violet spoke, and
said, “Fairy Queen, it is bad to flirt
with many, for the love of one true
heart is enough for earthly woman or
fairy spirit; the old love is better than
the gay compliments of the world of
flowers, for it will last when the others
fade away.”
And the Fairy knew that what the
Violet said was true; and she contented
herself ever after, and built her downy
bower under the wide-spreading Violet
leaves that sheltered her from the rude
winter’s wind and the hot summer’s
sun, and to this very day the fairies
love the violet beds
Id? 34 We should be cautious how we
indulge in the feelings of virtuous in
dignation. It.is the handsome brother
of anger and hatred,
From the Louisville Examiner.
GROWTH OF COFFEE AND PEP
PER IN JAVA.
In extent Java is about seven hun
dred miles in length, and it varies from
eighty to one hundred and forty miles
in width. Its area is less than twenty
thousand square miles. The face of
the country is more or less broken by
mountains, but the soil generally is
rich and productive. The products
are rice, sugar, coffee, peper, spiees,
and a profusion of the finest tropical
productions growing. Coffee is culti-j
vated here to as great perfection as in
almost any other part ot the world. It
grows upon large bushes, that very
much resemble our large chairkapin
bushes, and the grains of coffee are
formed two in a berry, about the size
and shape of our common plum The
skin of the berry is about as thick as,
that of the plum, and the color, when
ripe, a pale scarlet.
The bush is very productive. Every
branch is loaded with the berries,
which grow two jn a place, on opposite
sides of each other, and about an inch
and a half apart. When ripe, the skin
bursts open, and the grains of coffee
fall out upon the ground; but a more
way is to spread something
under the bush, and shake the coffee
down. After the outer skin is taken
off'there remains a kind of husk over
each kernel, which is broken off’, after
being well dried in the sun, by heavy
Rollers. The coffee, after this, needs
winnowing, in order to be freed from
the broken particles of the husk. It
has been said by some writers that
one bush will not, with another, aver
age more than a pound of coffee;
though it seemed to me, judging from
appearances, that this was too small
an allowance for each bush.
Biack pepper is also raised to some
extent on the island of Java; but Suma
tra, which lies just across the straits, is
by far the most celebrated for this com
modity. Her pepper is, perhaps, the
finest and most abundant of any in the
world. Black pepper grows on a vine,
very much like our grape vine, and the
pepper vineyards remind me very much
of our American vineyards of grapes.
The pepper grows, and looks, when
green, a good deal like our currants.
There is this difference, however; the
currant has each its own distinct stem,
but the pepper has not. Every grain
grows hard on to one common stem,
just as each grain of Indian corn does
on the cob, or husk, as Virginians in
correctly would say. The color of
pepper when first ripe, is almost a
bright red, and changes to the dead
black, common to us, by being exposed
to the heat of the sun.
The famous white pepper is nothing
more than the common black, with the
outer skin taken off. It is first soaked
until this skin bursts open, which is
then rubbed off and the grain dried.
The white is not considered so pungent
as the black, though, it is nicer and
more expensive, as more labor is ne
cessary in order to prepare it.
Replying to a Beggar.— The Duke
of Wellington is famous for his pithy
arid laconic style of speaking and writ
ing, almost as much as for his vigorous
and decisive mode of acting on the
battle-field. His military despatches
and his speeches in Parliament were
always remarkable for their directness,
brevity, and point. Here is a a speci
men of the “refreshing” Abernethy
like coolness and brevity which some
times characterize his notes. A rector
of a parish in one of the midland
counties of England, wishing to collect
subscription to repair his church,
begged assistance by letter of many of
the most distinguished men in the coun
try, the “Iron Duke” included. The
following was Wellington’s reply. An
autograph hunter, it is said, on being
shown the communication, promptly
offered five guineas for it, which was
accepted, and the sum set down as the
Duke’s contribution. Rather cute idea,
that, wasn’t it? —Yankee Blade.
“F. M. the Duke of Wellington,
presents his compliments to Mr.
As Mr. feels that his letter needs
apology, the Duke will say no more on
that subject, but he must add that,
there is not a church, chapel, glebe
house, school, or even a pagoda, built
from the North to the South pole, or
within the utmost limits of the earth,
to which he (the Duke of Wellington)
is not called upon to contribute; the
Duke is surprised that Mr. hav
ing already raised £7,500 towards the
restoration of his church, should make
application to the Duke, who has noth
ing to say either to or to
shire.”
Jenny Lind.— A letter from Stock
holm, of the 24th ult., says:
“The day before yesterday Mdlle.
Jenny Lind arrived here from Lubeck,
by the steamer Gaulhioa. At the land
ing place, the celebrated cantatrice was
received by a great number of young
girls, all clothed in white, who offered
flowers and wreaths to her. A carrage
drawn by four white horses, sent by
the Philharmonic Society, conducted
Mdlle. Lind to her hotel, where some
appartinents had been prepared for her.
In the evening the. houses adjoining
the hotel were illuminated by lights
placed at all the windows; a chorus of
professors and dilletanle executed a
sernade under her windows, and hun
dred of young men promenaded the
principle streets of the town in proces
sion, carrying flambeaux. Mdlle. Lind
will give six concerts at the Royal
Theatre at Stockholm. According to
the custom here when a noted artist ar
rives, the tickets for the places are put
up to public sale; more then 15,000
persons disputed their possession, and
they have been sold, at exorbitant
prices.—Mdlle. Lind will quit. Stock
holm towards the middle of July for the
waters of Ems. Her engagement in
the United States commences on the Ist
of October; but she will not embark for
that country before the month of Sep
tember.”— Gem of the Prairie.
Genius, invention, rends
the veil that separates existence from
possibility, peeps into the dark, and
catches a shape, a feature or a color
in the reflected ray.—Talent though
panting pursues genius through the
plains of invention, but stops short at
the brink that separates the real from
the possible.