hut the subject presents a still more
painful aspect. how are slaves made
better, and from what rn >tives are they'
made better, in this,country it is no
secret that 1 am about to tell there!
arc certain virtues and sanctities which
increase the pecuniary value of certain
slaves; and there are certain vices and
debasements which increase the mar-j
ket price of others. if a master wishes
to repose personal confidence in hi-y
slaves, he desires to have him honest
and faithful to truth. but if he desires
to make use of him to deceive and l
cajole and defraud, then fie wishes toj
make him cunning and tricky and false.
if the master trains the slave to take
care of his own children. or of his
favorite animals then he wishes to lave
him kind; but if he trains him tor a
taskpr or a field overseer, then he
wishes to have him severe. now, it is
in this way that some ot the christian
attributes of character, being directly j
convertible into money or money’s,
worth, enhance the value of a slave, j
hence it is said in advertisements, that!
a slave is pious and at the auction-block,
the hardened and heartless seller dwells
upon the christian graces and religious!
character of some slaves, with the unc-|
lion of an apostle. the purchaser
sympathizes, and only desires to know
whether tiie article be a real or a sham
christian. if mere.bones and muscles
compacted into human shape be worth
five hundred dollars, then, if the auc
tioneer can wrftrant the subject to have
the meekness of moses and the patience
of job, the same article may be worth
seven hundred. if the slave will for
give injuries, not merely seventy times
seven, but injuries inflicted all his life
long, then an additional hundred may
he bid for him. if he possesses all
the attributes of religion and piety, the
endurance of a hero, the constancy of
a saint, the firmness of a martyr, the
trustingness of a disciple,—all except
those which go to make linn feel like a
man, and believe himself a man, —then
that which as mere bone and muscle
was worth five hundred dollars, is now
worth a thousand. sir, is not this sel
ling the holy spirit? is not this mak
ing merchandise of the savior! is not
this the case of judas selling his mas
ter over again, with the important ex
ception of the remorse that made the
original culprit go and hang himseltr
but suppose thecase to be that of a
woman; supp*».w her ability to work
and capacity for production to he worth
live hundred dollars; suppose, iu ad
dition to this, she is young and sprightly
and voluptuous; suppose the repeated
m!usum of saxon blood has almost
washed the darkness from her skin; and
suppose she is not unwilling to submit
herself to the libertine’s embrace; then,
too, tiiat which before was worth but
five hundred dollars, will now bring a
thousand. and infernal as well a>
celestial qualities are coined into mon
ey, according to the demands of the
market and the uses of the purchaser.
now", it is only m some such inci
dental wav, and with regard to some
individuals, that it can he said, that
their condition is better here than it
would be in africa. and this improve
ment, where it exists, is not the result
of any system of measures designed
for their benefit, but is the product o:
selfish motives, turning godliness into
gam; and where more gain or more
gratification can be obtained by the
debasement, the irreligion, the pollution
the north star.
of the slave, there the instircts of
chastity, the sanctity of the marriage
relation, the holinesa of maternal love,
are all profaned to give security and
zest to the guilty pleasures of the sen
sualist and debauchee. there are in
dividual exceptions to what i have said,
—exceptions which amid surrounding
iniquity shine ‘like a jewel in an etbi
op’s ear,’ but they are exceptions.
laws, institutions, and the prevailing
public sentiment are as i have des
cribed.
i regard the argument, therefore, of
the gentleman from pennsylvania [mr.
brows] not only as»utterly unsound
and false in its premises, hut as blas
phemous in its conclusions. common
blasphemy seldom reaches beyond ex
clamation. it is some fiery outburst ofj
impious passion, that flashes and ex
pires. hut the gentleman reasons it
out coolly. his is argumentatve blas
phemy, borrowing the forms of logic
that it may appear to have its force.!
bnd transferring it from the passions toj
the intellect, to give it permanency.
but the gentleman from pennsylvania
retorts upon massachusetts, and refers
to certain things in her history which he
ipgards as disreputable to her. in this,
in* has been followed by the gentleman j
from v irginia, [mr. bedinger,] whoj
has poured out. a torrent of abuse on!
my native state, and who has attemp
ted to fortify his own intemperate ac->
ousations from a pro-slavery pamphlet
which has been profusely scattered'*
about this house within a few* clays past,
and which is not merely full of false- j
hoods, but is composed of falsehoods;
so that if one were to take the false
assertions and the false arguments out
of it, there would be nothing left but
the covers.' sir, lam very far from
arrogating for massachusetts all the
merits and the virtues which she ought
to possess. 1 mourn over her errors,'
and would die to reform, rather than
spend one breath to defend them. the!
recital of her offences can fall more
sadly upon no ear than upon my own. j
lint it is as true of a state as of an in-j
dividual, that repentance is the first i
step towards reformation. massachu-i
setts has committed errors; but* when
they were seen to be errors, she dis-'
carded them. she once held slaves; 1
but when she saw that slavery w as con
trary to the right of man and the law
of god, she emancipated them. she
was the first government in the civilized
world, —in the whole world, ancient or i
modern, —to abolish slavery, wherever
she had power to do so. this is an;
honor that no rival can ever snatch from;
her brow. once, —i say it with hu-j
rniliation, —she was engaged in the j
slave trade. but all the gold that
could he earned by the accursed traffic,
hough spent in the splendors of luxury! l
iiid the seductions of hospitality, could
not save the trader himself from infamy
and scorn; and i am sure lam right ini
saying that the slave trade ceased tobe
conducted by massachusetts merchants,
and to be carried on in massachusetts, j
from massachusetts ports, before it,
was abandoned by the merchants, and
discontinued in the ships and from the
ports of any other commercial state or
nation in the world. this, too, is an
honor which it will be hers, through all
the immortality of the ages, alone to
wear. but massachusetts, it is still
said, has her idolaters of mammon in
other forms. it is charged upon her
that many of her children still wallow*
in the stye of intemprance; that her
spiritualism runs wild in religious va
garies; and that something of the old
leaven of persecution still clings to her
heart. in vindicating what is right, j
will not defend what is w*rong. i cannot:
deny,—would to god that i could,
that we still have vicesand vicious men
amongst us. there are those there, as
elsewhere, who, if they were to hear for
the lirst time of the river of life flow
ing fast by the throne of god, would!
instinctively ask whether there were!
any good mill sites on it. there are*
those there, aselsweherc, whose highest j
aspirations for heaven and for happi-!
ness, whether for this life or for ano
ther, are a distillery and a sugar-; 1
house, with steam machinery t) mix the
products. there, as elsewhere, therej
are #eligionists who arc quick to imi-j
tale the savior when he strikes, but i!
despise his exanmie w hen j
but, sir, let me say this for mutual- j
chusctts, that w hatever sins she
have committed in former times, what
ever dissenters she may have
efl, or witches she may have iiatfgsd, 1
or africans sjtthave stolen
sob!, —she since abandoned
these offence#* and i aging forth 1
fruits meet foinqjßntance. and in. m 1
state to have no benefit from a statute
of limitationsr isa crime connnitfnil i
by ancestors for ever to be imputes to
posterity? this is worse than
forgiveness; it is making punishment
hereditary. sir, of these offences, i
massachusetts has repeat d and rc- i
formed; and she is giving that noblest m
of utonemenss or expiations, which
consists in repairing the wrong that has i
been done; and where the victim of the
wrung has himself passed away, and is i
beyond relief, then in paying, with large' i
interest, the debt to humanity, which m
the special creditor is no longer present 1 1
to receive, by seeking out the objects
of want and suffering, wherever they
many bo found. sir, our accusers un
consciously do us the highest honor,
when, in their zeal to malign us, they
i seek for historical reproaches. i f they
could find present offences wherewith
to upbraid us, they would not exhume
jibe past. but they condemn them
selves. for they show that the resuscita-i.
t;*m of the errors of the dead gives
j lecture r.«i die north an*f south, ilelivrrctf in
j january 16, 1846, before the yooug
j hen’s mercantile library association of cincin>
i twii. by elmwood fuller
right is of no sex—truth is of no color-god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren.
f them more pleasure than a contempla
(j tion of the virtue* of the living. one
thing is certain, the moment the other
i states shall imitate our preaent ex
•i ample, they will cease to condemn us
for our past offences. the sympathy
of a common desire for improvement
will destroy the pleasure of crimina
•j tion.
and where, i ask, on the surface of
the earth, is there a population of only
j eight hundred thousand, who are striv
ing so earnestly and doing so much to
advance the cause of humanity and
i civilization, as is doing by the people of
1 massachusetts: where else, where
universal suffrage is allowed, is a million
!of dollars voted every year, by the
very men who have to pay it, for the
1 public, free education of every child in
the state? where else, by such a lim
ited population, is another million of
j dollars voluntarily voted and paid each
year for the salaries of clergymen
alone? where else, where the popula
tion is so small, and natural resources
so few and scanty, is still another mil
lion of dollars given in charity ?—the
greater portion of which is sent beyond
their own borders, flows into every
state in the union, and leaves not a
nation on the globe, nor an island in
j the sea, nnwatered by its fertilizing
streams. look into the statute hook ol
massachusetts, for the last twenty
years, and you will see how' the whole
current of her legislation has set in the
direction of human improvement, —for
succoring disease or restoring from it,
j for supplying the privations of nature,
for reclaiming the vicious, for elevat
ing all, —a comprehensiveness of scope
that takes in every human being, and
an energy of action that follows every
individual with a blessing to his home.
1 when others will abandon theii
offences, then let the remembrance o!
them he blotted out.
but, sir, i think it proper to advert
to the fact, that i have had other proofs,
during the present session of congress,
of the same spirit of crimination and
obloquy, which was so fully developed
in the speeches of the gentleman fronr
pennsylvania, [mr. brown,] #nd the
gentleman from virginia, [mr. bed
inger. j through the post office of the
house of representatives, i have beer
in the regular receipt of anonymous
letters, made up mainly of small slips
cut from newspapers printed at tin
north, describing some case of murder
suicide, robbery, or other offence
these have been arranged under th<
heads of the different states, —ohio
pennsylvania, new york, connecti ut
&tc., and accompanied, in the margin
with rude drawings pf a school-book oi
a school-house, and all referred to com
mon schools, as to their source. two
only, of the whole number thus collec
ted, originated in massachusetts, and
one of these was a case of suicide com
mitted by a man who had become in
sane from the loss of his wife. whicli
of these events, in the opinion of my
anonymous correspondent, constituted
the crime,—whether the bereavement
that caused the insanity, or the suicide
committed in one of its paroxysms, —i
am unable to say. now, what satis
faction even a bad man could have in
referring offences against law' and
morality to public schools, when he
must have known that the very existence
of the offences only proves that educa
tion has not yet done its perfect work,
i cannot conceive. and what spite,
either against an educational office
which i once held, or against an institu
tion which is worthy of all honor, could
be so mean and paltry as to derive
gratification from referring me to long
lists of offences, only one of which was
committed in my native state, i must
leave for others to conjecture. surely,
the author of these letters must have
known little of common schools, and
profited by them as little as he has
know n. had he referred to any con
siderable number of crimes perpetrated
in massachusetts, 1 would {gpke his
letters borne and carry them into our
public schools, and make them a text
for a sermon, in which i would warn
the children to beware of all crimes, and
especially of the meanness and the
wickedness which feel a complacency
in the crimes of others, or can give a
false paternity to them. and, sir, i
should be sure of a response, for out of
t|cu«o *6110013 there is going forth a
nobler of yojng men and young
hfotaen thetr ever before conferred in
leuigeoce, wftue, refinement and re-:
lumrn upon my people or community j
on the face of the globe.
he said in mitiga-'
tion or in jfgpdemnation of slavery)
elsewhere, tfefr. are special reasons j
wh vit should b* discontinued in this j
plitrfcc 'irhi district is the common i
property of fhe nation. having pow-i
mfmwmfive legislation over it, we
am all responsible for the institution in
it. while slaves exist in it, therefore,!
it can be charged-upon the north that i
they uphold slavery. this is unjust to
us, because it places us before the world
in the attitude of sustaining what wej
condemn. it wounds our moral and
religious sensibilities, because we be
lieve the institution to be cruel towards
men, and sinful in the sight of heaven;
and yet we are made apparently to
sanction it. it is like that species of!
injustice where a man is compelled by i
a tax to support a religion which hej
disbelieves, and to pay a hierarchy
which his conscience compels him to
denounce. but the existence of slave-1
rv here is not necessary to the faith or
the practice of our southern brethren.
if they believe it to be a useful and
justifiable institution, then they evince
the sincerity of that belief by sustain
ing and perpetuating it at home. for
this purpose, there is fso necessity of a
crusade to propagate it, or sustain it
elsewhere.
rochester. n. y., friday, may 18, 1849.
i look at the relation which we bear
ito it, in another respect. i hare been
i taught from my earliest childhood that
j ‘all men are created equal/ thia has
become in me not merely a conrictioo
of the understanding, but a sentiment
!of the heart. this maxim is my princi
pie of action, wheoerer i am called
upon to act; and it rises spontaneously
to my contemplation when i speculate
upon human duty. it is the plainest
corollary from the doctrine of the na
tural equality of man, that when i see
a man, or a class of men, who are not
equal to myself in opportunities, in gifts,
i in means of improvement, or in motives
i and incitements to an elevated charac
j ter and an exemplary life, i say, it ia
the plainest corollary, that i should de
sire te elevate thoss men to an equality
with myself. however far my own life
may fail beiow the standard of christi
anitv and gentlemanliness, yet i hold
it to be clear, that no man is a christian
or a gentleman, who does not carry
about an habitual frame of mind which
prompts him, as far as he has the means
to do it, to instruct all the ignorance, to
relieve all the privations, to minister to
all the pains, and to supply all the de-
i ticiencies of those with whom he meets
in the daily walks of life; and, so far as
he is a inan who wields influence, pos
sesses authority, or exercises legisla
tive power, he is bound to exert his i
gifts aud his prerogatives for the ame-j
lioration and the improvement of hisi
feilovvmcn. this is the lowest standard
of duty that any one who aspires to be!
a christian ora gentleman can set up
for his guidance. now take the case
of a man from the north, who has in
corporated these views, or any simili
tude of these views, into his character,
and who has occasion to visit this dis-;
trict. suppose him to be elected and!
sent here as a member of congress, or
to be appointed to a post in some of the j
departments, or to visit this city on pub
lic business, or to come here from
motives of curiosity; what is the first
sight w hich is inflicted upon him when
he first sets his foot within this common
property of the nation, —when he first
enters this household, where the head
of the nation resides and directs? sir,
when he first alights from the cars
which bring him within your limits and
your jurisdiction,he beholds a degraded
caste, —a race of men whom god en
dowed with the faculties of intelligence,
but whom man has despoiled of the
power of improving those faculties,
squalid in their garb, betraying igno
rance in every worjjpljey utter, uncul
tivated in their manned! and their
tastes, fawning for a favor, instead of
standing erect like men wljo are con
scious of rights? or, if they have out
grown servile and sycophantic habits,
then erring on the side of impudence
and insolence as much as they erred
before on that of cringing and servility.
he repairs to his lodgings, and there,
too, all his moral sensibilities are shock
ed and outraged, by seeing a class of
men and women hopelessly degraded,
cut off by law' and custom from all op
portunity of emerging from their de
basement; whom no talent, taste or
virtue can ever redeem to the pleasures
and the rights of social intercourse.
he sees men and women who are not
degraded on account of the services
they perform,—for ‘honor and shame
from no condition rise,’—but degraded
by the motive and spirit from which the
services are performed; men and wo
men who have no inducements to indus
try and frugality, for their earnings will
all be seized by another; who have no
incentives to self-respect, for they can
never emerge from their menial con
dition; who are bereaved of all the
wonders and glories of knowledge, lest;
under its expansions their natures
should hurst the thraldom that enslaves
them; and all whose manly qualities,
all whose higher faculties, therefore,
are irredeemably and hopelessly crush
ed, extinguished, obliterated, so that
nothing but the animal, which the mas
ter can use for his selfish purposes, re
mains.
mr,. brodiiead. would you ad
vance the slaves to an equal social;
and political condition with the white
race?
mr. manx. i would give to every!
human being the best opportunity i
could to develope and cultivate the fa-]
culties which god has bestowed upon!
him, and which, therefore, he holds
under a divine charter. i would take
from his neck the heel that has trodden j
him down i would dispel from his
mind the cloud that has shrouded him
iu moral night i would remove the
obstructions that have forbidden his
soul to aspire and having done this, i
would leave him, as! would leave every
other man, to find his level, —to occu-'
py the position to which he should be
entitled by his intelligence and his vir- j
tues. i entertain no fears on the i
much-dreaded subject ol amalgamation, j
legal amalgamation between the races,
will never take place, unless, in the
changed condition of society, reasons
shall exist to warrant and sanction it;
and in that case, it will carry its own
justification with it. but one thing i
could never understand,*——why those.
who are so horror-stricken at the idea
of theoretic amalgamation, should es-j
hibit to the world, in all their cities, on i
all their plantations, and in all their,
households, such numberless prpol;
of practical amalgamation. i never
could see why those who arraigned and
condemned us at the north, so vebem
ently, because, as they say, we obtrude!
our prying eves into what they call a
•domestic’ or ‘fireside institution,;
should have no hesitation in exhibiting
to the world, through all their borders,
ten thousand living witnesses that they
make it a bedside institution. multi
tudes of the slaves of the south bear a
bout upon their peisoae a brand as in-
delible as that ofcaio; but the mark
i has been fastened upon them, not for
i their own crimes, but for the crimes of
i their fathers. in the complexion of the
i stare, we read the horrid history of the
i guilt of the enslavers. they demon
strate that’the one race has been to the
i other, not the object of benevolence,
but the victim of licentiousness.
but to resume when the visiter to
this city from the north leaves his lodg
ings, and goes into the public streets,
half the people whom he meets there
are of the same degraded class. their
tattered dress and unseemly manners
deoote congenital debasement. their
language proclaims their ignorance. i f
you have occasion to send them on an
errand, they cannot read the direction
of a note, or a sign on a shop-board.
tbeir ideas are limited within the nar
rowest range. they speak the natural
language of servility, and they wear
the livery of an inferior condition. the
conviction of their deplorable state is
perpetually forced upon the mind. you
do not need their color to remind you
of their degradation. color, sir they
are oftentimes almost as white as our
selves. sir, there is not a member of
congress who has not frequently seen
some of his fellow-members, in the
spring of the year, with a jaundiced
skin, more sallow and more yellow than?
that of many a slave who is bought andj
sold and owned in this city. i have
seen members of this house, to whom:
i have been disposed to give a friendly
caution to keep their free papers
about their persons, lest suddenly, on
the presumption from color, they should
be seized and sold for runaway slaves.
a yellow complexion here is so com-1
mon a badge of slavery, that one whose
skin is colored by disease is by no
means out of danger. to enjoy secu
rity, a man must do more than take,
care of his life he must take care of:
his health. it is not enough to take
heed to the meditations of his heart
he must see also to the secretions of his 1
liver.
but, sir, the stranger from the north
visits the courts of justice in this city:
he goes into the halls set apart and con
secrated, even in the dark and half-:
hfittienish periods of english history,
to the investigation of truth and the ad- j
ministration of justice; blit if he secs
any specimens of the colored race there,!
he sees them only as menials. they 1
cannot go there as witnesses. how
ever atrocious the wrongs they may
suffer in their own person and charac
ter, or in the person and character of
wife or children, they cannot appeal to
the courts to avenge *>r redress them.
it introduced there at alt, it is as a bale
of goods is introduced, or as an ox or
a horse is brought within their purlieus,
for the purpose of trying some disputed
question of identity or ownership. they
go not as suitors, but as sacrifices. in
the courts of law; in the temples with
which all our ideas of justice, of right
between man and man, are associated;
where truth goes to be vindicated,
where innocence flies to be avenged;—
in these courts, an entire portion of the
human race are known, not as men,
but as chattels, as cattle. where, for
them, is the magna charta, that the!
old barons wrested from king john
is a whole race to be forever doomed j
to this outlawry are they forever to;
wear a “wolf’s head,” which every
white man may cut off when he pleases?
sir, it cannot be that this state of things
will last forever. if all the rights o!
the black race are thus withheld from
them, it is just as certain as the pro
gress of time that they, too, will have
their runnymcde, their declaration of
independence, their bunker hill, and
their yorktown.
such, sir, are the sights that molest
us when we come herefrom the north;
that molest us in the hotels, that molest
us in the streets, that molest us in the
courts, that molest us everywhere. but
the week passes away, and the sab
bath comes, —the day of rest from
worldly toils, the day set apart for so
cial worship, when men eome together!
and by their mutual presence and as
sistance, lift up the hearts of each oth
er in gratitude to god. but where now
are the colored population, that seemed
to be so numerous everywhere else r
have they no god have they no
interest in a savior’s example and pre
cepts have they no need of consola
tion, of faith in the unseen, to help
them bear up under the burdens and
anxieties of life is tbeir futurity so
uncertain or so worthless that they need
no guide to a better country, or that
they can be turned oft* with a guide as
ignorant and blind as themselves
we go from the courts and the
churches to the schools. but no child
in whose skin there is a shadow of a
shade of african complexion is to be
found there. the channels are so cut,
that all the sacred and healing waters j
of knowledge flow, not to him, but by,
him. sir, of all the remorseless and
wanton cruelties ever committed in thui
world of wickedness and woe, i hold
that to be the most remorseless and
wanton which shuts out from all the
means of instruction, a b *ing whom
god has endued with the capacities of
knowledge, and inspired with the divine
desire to know. strike blossom and
beauty from the vernal season of the
year, and leave it sombre and cheer
less annihilate the harmonies with
which the birds of spring make vocal
the field and the forest, and let exulting
nature become silent and desolate; dry
up even those fountains of joy and glad-
mmeoew that flow unhidden from the
heart of childhood, and let the radiant
countenance of youth become dull and
stony like that of age ;—do all this, if
you will, but withhold your profane
band from those creative sources of
knowledge which shall give ever-re-
newing and ever-increasing delight
through all the cycles of immortality
and which have the power to assimilati
the finite creature more and more
nearly to the infinite creator
(to be cenimutd.
emancipation in kgnttxkv.^
the cause of emancipation does not
appear to be in so unfavorable a posi
tion in kentucky as th° accounts some
time ago led us to believe. indeed,
we have every reason to think that
slavery is doomed in that common
wealth.
perhaps, in no stale of the union,
has the institution existed under milder
auspices; and hence the lormer apathy
of so many good and excellent men
there with regard to irs extirpation.
in a population of eight hundred thou
sand souls, there are only one hundred
and eighty thousand slaves. very
many of these are household servants,
and experience bondage only in th<-
name. even those who are field la
borers know little of the real horrors o!
slavery; and this is especially true ol
the hemp district, where the slaves are
regularly requitted for overwork, and
it is not unfrequent fora master to have
to pay his servant filly dollars at the end
of a season. it is thus not beyond
power of the negro, with economy and
perseverance, to earn sufficient to pur
chase his freedom; .and, as a general
rule, the master is found favoring him
in the endeavor as much as possible.
yve could cite numerous instances
where owners have not only parted with
a favorite slave for a low price, but
have given the command of heir own
time for a specific number of years, in
order that they might amass enough to
purchase their liberty.
in intelligence, in the possession of
comforts, in moral standing, the slaves
of kentucky will compare favorably
with any body of people, black or white,
forming, like them, the lower class of
the community. no stranger of ob
servation, who has visited louisville,
can have failed to have noticed this.
the african baptists, in that city,
have a large and elegant church, with
its mahogany pulpit, its choir of thirty
singers and all the other elegancies and
refinements of the most intelligent eon-;
gregations. the pastor is, or was— i
one of the ablest men of his color; a far
more able man indeed than the second
and third rate white pastors, who offi
ciate over slave congregations in y ir
ginia, and other states where black
preachers are forbidden by law to ex
ercise their functions. there nu
merous colored sunday schools.
city also. indeed, comparing the phy
sical, intellectual, and moral condition
of the kentucky slaves generally, with
that of the free blacks of ohio, who,
though freeman in name, are deprived
of nearly every attribute of liberty,
any impartial mind would give a ver
dict in favor of the superior advantages
of the slave, in these respects. and it
is the knowledge of this, which has
made kentuckians generally so indiffer
ent to the cause of emancipation. had
the condition of the seri been worse in
that state, liberty would long since
have triumphed, for the non-siave
holding sections, out of pure sympathy 1
with the oppressed black would havej
carried an act of emancipation long
ago.
vet, in spite of these advantages en
joyed by the kentucky slaves, they arc
slaves alter all; and the consciousness
of this has long pressed remorsefully i
on the hearts of their masters, as well
as of those who do not own servants. 1
that the children ofa serf, and his chil
dren’s children shall ho serfs also,
under that horrible maxim of the slave
law, "partus nequitur rentrem’ a yl.
serf’s down to the end of time—is a re
flection that has stood between the con-;
science of many a master and has ma
ker, when he came to lie upon the bed
of death. all the possible cruelties
that the slave and his descendants
might undergo tn other hands—cruel
ties which might have been averted if
the servant had been emancipated—!
have then risen up, weird and gigantic
phantoms, to haunt the soul in its dark
passage through the y alley of the
shadow of death. in that dread hour
everv sophistry by which the fell sys
tem has been "defended; every motive
of interest; every suggestion of false
philanthropy, has been dissipated and
the patting spirit has seen the
evils of slavery revealed in all th ir
magnitude and horror. ihe reflection
that such a day was coming, with diin
foreshadowings of its remorseful tor
tures, has visited the heart of the slave
holder in the solemn hours of the night,
and “almost persuaded him” to unbind
the serf. but the apathy of human na
ture. assisted by the suggestions of in
terest, has in the end triumphed; and
thus thousands, who are not averse to
emancipation, have remained indiffer
ent heretofore. a time has now come
however, when they cau do this no
longer.
so far back as 1832 the friends of
freedom and of slavery bad become so
equally matched that a compromise
was extorted from the latter, in the
passage of an act which forbade the in-
treduction of slaves into kentucky
from other states. tilts was consented
to by the pro-slavery party, tw cause it
would increase the value of the slave;
but while it thus partially benefited
slavery, it favored the cause of freedom
more, by preventing the exces.-ive in
crease of the slaves. under this law
the two parlies have remained silent, if
not contented for nearly eighteen years.
but, at the late session of the legisla
lature, the pro-slavery party, irritated
at the movements in favor of emanci
pation, took addflbtage of a temporary
majority, and repeated this act. by
this suicidal proceeding they have alien-
john (h(*k. pb»m«»*
whole no. 78.
forever from them that large party,
constituting a clear majority of the peo
ple of kentucky, who were averse to
increasing slavery, and who, being now
forced to choose betweeu this and
emancipation, will take the side of the
latter.—all those who own no servants,
together with all those who do, but
whose conscientious scruples have
been hilled to rest heretofore, will now
be united, and will come out, in the
approaching convention, in favor of
freedom—adde& to this, the heavy
slave counties which, under the old ap
portionment ruled one-fourth of the leg
islature, will now scarcely command
a twentieth. the result is plain. the
course of liberty will triumph, must tri
umph. the struggle may be long,
and the victory not gained for many a
year yet: but it will be gained—thank
uod! kentucky has 100 large a pro
portion of citizens who do not own
slaves, too intelligent and conscien
tious a population everywhere, not
eventually to follow the example of new
york and pennsylvania, and wheel in
fo line in the number of free states.—
phil. evening bulletin.
1»loodv tragedy in mississippi.—it
is our painful task to record one of the
most shocking murders that has oc
curred within the bounds of our county,
which happened in the prairie, near the
quiet little village of pikevilfe. it ap
pears that mr. j. flcggemoti attempt
ed to correct a negro man in his em
ploy, who resisted, drew a knife, and
stahbehiin in several places—amr.j.
hobbs ran to his assistance. mr.
hobbs stooped to pick up a 9lick to
strike the negro, and while in that posi
tion, the negro rushed upon him, and,
w ith a dirk, indicted a wound in his left
breast, which caused his immediate
death. the negro then fled to the
woods, but was pursued with dogs, and
overtaken. he had stopped in a swamp
to tight the (logs, when the party came
up ami commanded him to give up,
which he refused to do. he then made
several eflbits to stab them. mr. rob
erson, one of the party, gave him
several blows on the head wmi a rifle
gun; but this, instead of only
increased his despetgte revenge. mr.
li. then discharged his gun at tho ne
gro, and, missing him, the ball struck a
mr. boon in the face and felled biin to
the ground; the negro, seeing' mr.
boon prostrated, attempted to stab ban,
but was prevented by the interference
of some of the party. he was then
shot three times with a revolving’pistol
and once with a rifle, and, after leaving
throat cut, ho still kefpt the knife
utility grasped in bis hdnd, and tried to
cut their jegs when they approached to
put an end to his life. mr. boon is
said to be seriously wounded. mr.
heggeson’s wounds are slight.—hous
ton (jlltss.),republican, march 31.
o’connell and his client. —he
used to lodge, ivhen at cork, at a
stationer’s of the name of o’hara, in
patrick st. one of the principal thor
oughfares in the city. there, during
the assizes there was always a crowd
before his door, lounging under his
windows, anxious to get a peep at the
counsellor. whenever ho made his
appearance, there was always a hearty
cheer. on one occasion, an old friend
of his, who had once bolonged to the
bar, mr.k ,a member of a most res
pectable family, called on o’connell
during the assizes, to pay him a friend
ly visit. he found o’connell engaged
with a shrew-looking farmer, who was
consulting him on a knotty case. heart
ily glad to see his old friend, o’connell
sprang foward, saying, “my dear k.,
i'in delighted to see you." the
farmer seeing the visitor come in, cun
ningly took the opportunity of sneak
ing away. he had got what he wanted
—the opinion; hut o’connell had not
got what he wanted—the fee. o’con
ii"ll at once followed the farmer, who had
got the start by a flight of stairs. the
rustic quickened his pace when ho found
that the counsellor was in chase. o’-
connell saw that he could not catch
the runaway client, who was now on
the flight leading into the hall. he
leant over the banister, and made a
grasp at the farmer’s collar; but, in
»ted of the collar, he caught what he at
first thought his hair, but which
proved to be the rustic’s wig, which
came away in h:s hand. o’connell
gave a shout of laughter, and, quick
as thought, jumped in high spirits hack
to hts room. “hurrah! see k ,i*ve
got the rascal's wig.” up went the
window—“ three cheers for the coun
sellor!—long life io your honour. ar
rah! is’nt he the man of the people."
“ah! boys,” saido’con/iell, with glee,
“look here what i’ve got for you.
here’s the wig of a rascal that has
just bilked me of a fee." shouts of
laughter rent the air as the wig was
pitched out, to undergo a rapid process
of radical reform at the hands of the
mob. as the wigleas farmer made bis
appearance, he was received with
groans of derision, and was glad
enough to escape with unbroken bones.
revelation» of ireland.
an inge* iocs atu. —mr. j. k.
gliddon relates, in his lectures oo
egyptian archeology, reported in the
arehetological journal of the past and
present month, that “an arab disco
ver ed the northern air-channel of the
great pyramid to be open from top to
bottom, by placing a cat at the outer
orifice and her kittens at the other,
shutting them in with stooes. ine
mother «on found her «v
through the n nm*. her imle fum
1.. „,u. pruning the. «hl» hitherto an.
termor peeeag* coouounketed with the
outside. previous to the clearing of
these passages the air in the pyramid
was quite suffocating.”
new england anti-slavery convention
the annual meeting of this t convention »d
be held in boston, on tcbsday. may
„»d will probably continue in session. i-.
u<nal. the two following date fhe wide
repulsion of thi* cooventtou a* the most j
interesting and enthusiastic of all ;lie aeti-*
slavery gatherings held in the country during!
the vear —the solemn and heaven-attested j
pledge-of the friends ot those who are
j.ining in bondage—the critical hate ol our
juee, in regard to the establishment of slave
v «>n the soil of california and new mexico.
..nd to the southern design of securing the
annexation of coha to tha cnited jstalee— i
ihe remembrances of the strengthening inter-*
views obtained at precious meetings, and the
powerful impetus given to ihe car of free
dom by each anniversary succeanvely—and
me importance of making ‘a i-hott work in
nghteouaneas' of the tetrible slave ay stem,,
by effecting the ovetthrow of its governmental
bulwark, the american union—should, and
undoubtedly will, bring together a crowded
auditory, animated by a zeal that never tires,
a vigilance that never slumbets. and a spirit
of heroism that never turns from the conflict.
vbnlit’.onists in every part of the land*
invite you to be with us on an occasion so
inspiring, in the name ot three millions of
slaves and their posterity.
in behalf of ihe .massachusetts anu-slave
iv society.
francis jackson, pnudnu
ki> .tu.sd qriscv. secretary.
receipts for n. v. state vigilance om*
mil tee, since march 19. 1849.
from jas. arnold, new bedford, mass.,
»50 w), indies a. s. society, cazenovia,
n y 15 of*; d. c. a. joy, norlhamp
lon. mass., 10 (x); c. j. case, of fulton,
v y $llo 00; \v. h. tyler, pittsfield,
mass., $5 00; dea. j. woodruff, windsor,
n a., $5 oti; s. w. brewster, hannibal.
v y $5 o<*; o. s. pcnfield, delhi, n. v.,
3 (ml; \v. groig, ijodi, n. j., $3 00; a. i\
stilson, franklin, x. y., 1 (ml; per s. s.
bradford, homer, n. y., 1 00; airs. h.
weber, ashford, 1 00; k. judson and mis.
wells, kingsboro, y., each a 1 <n>; rev.
j garland and j. batehelder, monmnent.
mass, each 1 00; mrs. j. m. jackson.
glenhaven, x. y., 1 00; cash, i 00;
ahira kent, hanibal, n. y., $2 00 total,
12* 00.
william harnei), treat',■.
no. 01 john siippi.
atw york. april 2ft. lft 10.
notk.—a number of-interesiing and high
ly encouraging letters have been teceived do
ling the month, the following is from tfie
widow of a clergyman in this .state, and
cannot fail to interest our liicnde, and to -tii
them up to active exertion- and increased lib
erality. thus far, fir contributions from our
own state have been import ion a hi v small:
we hope to report more favorably next mouth
i)*:ah bro. ii.vknki): march, 30, i^lt*
i yesterday teceived your letter of the tilth
uist directed to my dear ha-lronl. it be
comes my duty to answer it. as he ir.ms from'
his earthly labors. it is mote than six months'
since he left us tor thespiut land. his last
days were peaceful and happy. it !r was
here, he would respond to your call, most
heartily, and strive to aid you by his eflurts,
and as far as practicable by his puistv- 1 shall
put your letter in the hands of the church.
but the church in this plan? is small, and
willi regard to property, in very moderate cit
cumstancea, and have no minister; and w hat
is worse the lve of god has waxed cold, and
consequently, the love of man is not very sir
dent, although we are an anti-slavery 'hsircli.
but i hope they will feel disposed to send
some assistance, i enclose one doilai tin
your use, and should be glad if it v. as ten,
ves, fitly times as much. but my means are
quite limited. 1 am left with four small chil
dren, and perhaps this is as much as duty
will allow me to give in my circumstances.
that the lord may, through his people, fill
your treasury with money, and by his spirit
and providence till your hearts with joy and
gladness, is the prave-r of
yout -x if ter m chris!,
lu*a uti-slavery papeis of new york am
massachnseth will please copy.
from the tribune.
xiiuiveisniy meeting of the anicii
can autislaverysociety.
i tic auuiversary meeting of the amencan
anti-slavery society was opened on tues
day, at the tabernacle, at 10 o'clock, in
epite of the dull, drizzly rain, making the
worst imaginable weather for a public meet
ing, a large collection of the friends of the
cau.-e from all parts of the country, including a
good proportion of colored people, were as
sembled at an early hour, and soon the rapa
cious tabernacle was crowded to i;s utmost
extent bv a miscellaneous, but very attentive
audience. among the distinguished leaders
of the anti-slavery movement we noticed
wendell phillips. edmund quincy, france
jackson, wm. lloyd garrison, dr. h.
farnsworth of massachusetts; isaac v. hop
per of new york, and lucietia mott of phila
delphia.
the meeting was called to order bv ihe
president. \y m. lloyd garrison, who said
that they might be sure of the blessing ol
s height v god on account of the goodness ol
tilt- cause which had brought the::i together,
hut it any fell disposed to address the throne
it lirace, an opportunity was now present
ed.
viler a pause of a few minutes. samuel
may of leicester, mas*, came forward and
ntfeicd an appropr.ate prayer.
sy. l. garrison then said ihat the only
speech which he should make would tie to
read the testimomtva of those, whose reputa
tion unlike his own had never been call' d in
question —he ineas.i the frophets of the old
testament. mr. g. then proceeded to read
hi a very impressive manner, seven-l striking
elections from the iwol of isaiali, jeremiah
tnd ezekiel, in which tlieii faithful and pi n
gent denunciations of the sins of great, might
tie considered applicable to ttie crying evi!> of
our own land.
.mr. u. theu eouliuued it jy ay# been
the object of this society to brand slavery as
a sin of the darkest aud deepest die. t main
tains that no roan can be a t hri-t.au who
holds ins brother man in bondage— that the
church is no christian church v.tiich cherish
es this evil witfun it* bosom. for this reaeon,
the cry ol infidelity ha* been ra.»ed ugamsi
tt,e movement. it is no wonder that ihii
should be douc bv a clergy, wb<> are ifi n
selves deeply involved in the guilt ..f '-lave
rv and by a church which nuke* hands will.
the blood-stained oppressor but it is not s»
abroad. tne churches ol groat btitian have
no toleration of ameuean slavery. as
proof of this, i bold a document. signed b;,
ovei 1,900 persons, ministers and laymen t>
vliand, remonstrating with the arne near
charges, on the support which they give v
slavery. _
mr. g. pr,'»ceeded to read rite retn\' vfl lr n _
which was couched in terms lea* compliment
ary than emphatical.
the treasurer's report was then presented
by i’iancis jackson, ahowmg total receipts
from donations, publications and subscriptions
to the anti-slavery standard, 6,999,57, i
and lots! expenditures for the standard andj
a gen lx. and support of tb«* office h» new
york. $6.*75 13.
a ornm ot resohitnmo were offered by ed
round quine v, and the meeting was address**
iv parket vilubnry of new hampshire
vaendell phillips and frederick iw>«gla**th«
vjitive
\djoaraed neetiai;
francis jackson, f.oq. of boston. one of th«
v ot tb<’ sncietv in tin-chair.
after addressing thf mevnni,’ ih <.‘hairmai
-übmitud tlic resolution* which «i i? undei
liscuanon at the time of the last adjournment
ihe substance oi which is as loimv
r**tdt*d, i hat tiie (inrui error of lia
kmenean clturcim was, opening ihe «uwr o
their fellowship to niurbulilm. it uasthu
that lowered the tone of their testimony, hi
them to tamper with the word of liod. arw
involved them m ail their present tronbte?
they excluded the thief or robber wlm hat
secular law against him, but utc legalized rob
her they take to their bosom as brethren a
christ. this was their error; and until thti
error i»e retrieved, the iccuvcry ta hopeless.
utmml, t hat from the firct hour that th<
abolitionists espoused the cause ot the slave
they necessarily as a matter of principle
broke tlo.ir alliance with the slave-holder ant
if they are found clinging to churches whirl
give the right hand to a slave-holder, or tip
|haing the doctrine of disunion, it :s simph
because they are not blind to their duty, o
seeing it. are guilty of betraying that cause u
which lliey sacredly pledged themselves.
rtwlctdy that it, at the clo.*e ut our revo
iuthmiary struggle for independence, when tin
fire of liberty was burning brightest in ever
breast and but half a milium of slaves wer
on our soil, the american union could b
formed only by throwing around slavery am
the slave trade guarantees of protection: i
follows, that with a slave population of threi
millions, the number of slave states doubled
and the nat onal conscience seated as w ith ha
iron by a long anj frightful career of oppress
uni, the i nion can be maintained only as lor,!
as those guaranties are recognized aabindir;
on the whole country.
resotrtd, that that whicii is giviiij
strength, extension and perpetuity to slavery
to wit, ih< union —on being overthrown by
peaceful w ithdrawal from it by the non-slave
1 holding slates, for conscience sake and fo
self-perservat;o.i, must necessarily weaken
limit and speedily extirpate slavery from lit
american soil. therefore,
j rtsolnd, that the motto oi every c-hrisltai
and of every patriot should l>e, “aw untn
intfi start/w'ldrrs, ilia r rtligously or jnditu-u
v
rt salt'd, that this is not a question of ex
pediency, on which action may he innocent!]
deferred, “till a mote convenient season,” l»u
i one of absolute morality, obedienep to em
and fidelity to mankind, to be met and carr.ei
out to the letter without delay.
wendell phillips, hairm.ni of the com
mittee of conference, made the following cf
port:
the committee of 30 report that, ia tlmi
opinion, tlie best interests of the cause re
quires an immediate and strenuous effort t<
awaken and renovate the anti-slavery semi
meat of eastern new-\urk —such a move
merit living in llit-ir view net only highly irn
ponar.: in it.-elf but the best means of enlarg
mg the circulation and extending the influent
ot the \n/t- slarrry standard. they recom
mend farther, that the services of edmum
quincy lie secured in addition to those of j.ts
rusm-i lyjweli, for that paper, in furtherunci
ol tb-it objects they urge that the morning h.
d< vot< cl to obtaining funds for the purpose o
sending lecturers into the eastern section o
new-a ork into vermont and western mas->a
cloim-m-; it is also the welcome dutv to assert
the mend- thatprobabiv the aid of mr. r.ru
mrs. foster can be had for the purpose.
mt. phillips made some very pertinent le
marks the address, agreeing with it, am
exhorting the meeuug to show their approva
of such a good cause/by a suitable subset! p
lion to forward it.
mrs. abby foster 4 ...he atu-n
non of the inecling, and supported the repor
laid upon it by mr. phillip* hr-- remark
were eloquent and much to the ptij os:, m
wore concluded atnid much applause.
mr. foster addressed the meeting b»r
short time.
anniversary of the vigilance committee
on tuesday night this committee and tin
friends of abolition held their anniversary i
the church corner of prince and marion ms
the meeting v.rs well attended by white nui
colored people. the evening’s exercises vver
i opened in prayer by rev. mr. hall, ai'te
j w hich mr. chas. b. ray, secretary, readth
j committee’s report, from which we extr.tr
the following, the crowded state of our eo!
minis nut allowing us to publish it entire
report.
committees of vigilance, for the protec. io
and assistance of fugitive* from tho land a
itains, are too well known in these regie.is
j tn their character, objects and work to link
lit necessary to restate them. the old com
i mittee in its time performed a great at.d gh»ri
ous work its history, through a period i
j ten years, is written iu the personal liberty c
ttvo thousand of our fellow-men. it, an
1 the men of its times—some of whom are reap
i ing their reward in the spirit-land, and other
j in the consciousness of having done what the
could—.ire embalmed in the grateful hearts u
thousands of our now free and happy breth
ren.
the new york state vigilance commit
tee, whose first anniversary we now celebrate
i intends, in its enlarged sphere of usefulness
to be not a whit behind its illustrious prodc
cessar. all that was well-timed and gh.riou
m the toimer, will be imitated by the latter
at no period iu the history of committees u
j vigilance, for the bondman’s benefit, did eve
so many hearts beat in his behalf as now
never were so many hands leady to eorne n
ids help never were his claims better under
stood or heeded. at no period lias legislatiot
throw n mound him her shield to such an ex
tent as at the present. .nevar have laws beet
i enacted in so many states making it penal fo
the citizens thereof to aid or abet in the cap
i litre of tiie th-emg fugitive as now. and yet
at no period has there been more work to lx
done than now.
i lie w hole number of persons having beer
provided for by ibe tcommittee during the
i year has been 150 to 200, incidents in the his
tory of some of w hom are of the most thrilling
character but time and prudenco forbid tbai
we should note particulars. two occurrences
1 however of recent date, cannot be passed by
in silence. eighteen months since, or there
j about, aii old inau with his wife and boy, wu
directed io us and we provided him with s
home some distance northward, uheie he fell
himself trcw- and happy. in this short time,
jby his own industry, beside taking cart a)
himself —which it is said emancipated ones are
unable t<> do —he has procured himself a
bouse and lot. having left some of his farai-
iv behind, ami now having provided a home
lor them, he felt a longing ts have them with
i bun, and deu-immed t<> go after liiem noth
ing daunted, this grav-haired old man, com
mences it s journey on his way, be calls on
ti. i 'oiiiui’t'- c and tarries for a night ;uid was
off again, full of courage, for the laud ol
w iiip>. after some days the old man returns,
with not a single hair of his head injured, and
rejoicing, bunging bis sheaves with him, iht
j planter's overset,
five months agu. a hale, healthy, shrewd
fellow, of about 25 summers, came to us,
leaving a wife and child behind, and we pro
vided him also with a northern home. op
i {losed to ihe separation of husband and wile,
i and equal!* opposed to a residence at the
sou:b, hud believing that the wife should
obey the husband, ot determined that she
abould fallow tum. thg| determined, he
j mart* vv v too called on us as he
j sum few days and, not
passed, and rema,...
w ithstanding our fears for on u
ed not—his courage failed nos—dtts ~u
was before him he went, and io a u(i
short to go the distauce tor any other purpu*^
and leturo, b* was again aamog at. a iw
rcmful adventurer. wiifc wife and child by hit
»tde. and i«j crown afl. such tii ib« fond
neat for bin nm<mg hit friend* there. that two
noble fellow* followed hint all tbe wav to a
free land
after tiie reading of the report, which abet
ted much applause. tbe meeting waa add rett
ed by fn-derkh donglans, and after mr.'
the ineetiog waa addrewrd by mtn».
elder. k*q„ of philadelphia.
some mher gentlemen add retted the as
semblage, and. after ~imr e are item singing,
separated.
fr..«n lire lu»i««ihe joarnal.
proceeding* of the coareauta of the
friend* of emancipation ia keitarky,
i this convention. composed ot citraeos of
the common weahh of kenctocky, and repre- j
ser.liug tbe opinions and wishes of a large
number of their citizens throughout the com
mon wealth, met in tbe capitol on tbe 25th of
april, 1849. to consider what coots* h be
comes those who are opposed to the increase
and to the perpetuity of slavery in this state
to, pursue in the approaching canvass for
members of the convention, called to amend
i the constitution, adopts the propositions which
1 follow, as expressing its judgment m the
premises.
i. believing that involuntary hereditary i
(slavery, as it exists by law in this state, ia
injurious to the prosperity ot the comroon
i wealth, inconsistent with ihe fundamental 1
j principle of fiee government, contrary to tbe
natural rights of mankind, and adverse to a
i pure state of morals—we aie of opinion
that it ought not to be perpetuated in the c om
limn wealth.
j 11. that any scheme of emancipation ought
,to be prospective, operating exclusively upon
i negroes born after the adoption of the scheme,
j and connected with colonization.
111. that we recommend the following
j points as those to be insisted on in tbe new
j constitution, and that candidates lie run in
icvcrv county in the state, favorable to these
or similar constitutional provisions; 1- the
j absolute prohibition of the importation of anv
i more slaves to kentucky. 2. the complete
power in the people of kentucky to enforce
and perfect in or under the new constitution,
a system ot gradual prospective emancipation
i of slaves.
iv. this convention coniines its recom
mendations to the question ot slavery, and
makes no expression of opinion on any other
j topic.
resolved. that vv. w. worsley, rueben
i).iwson, i>. l. beatty. patrick maxev, bland
ballard. william i*. boone. william i'.. glov
jer. 'l'. mcgram, james speed, and wni,
richardson, be and they are hereby appointed
a central committee to use all proper means
to promote the views of this convention ort
the subject of emancipation, and that they
have power to appoint sub-commiuees in such
places in the state as they may deem proper,
and also to appoint advocates of the cause
i where they may think its interests demand it.
i on motion of mr. ballinger, it was
j resolved, that the thanks of this conven
tion are hereby tendered to i's president, a ice
j presidents and secretaries, for the able and
i impartial manner in which they have dis
charged their respective duties,
i resolved, that the newspapers of ken
tucky be requested to publish the foregoing
preamble and resolutions.
henry olay, of bourbon, president,.
ii wino vtk and w. p. boone, yice-presi|
dents,
i bland ballard, o, s. poston, and samuel
.i shy, secietaries.
from the practical christian.
washington good to be ilnng.
more than 21.000 inhabitants of massa
chusetts begged gov. briggs to commute tho
sentence of death and spare the life of this
ignorant, degraded and unfortunate colored
man, who was convicted murder only on
circumstantial evidence. ibe most eloquent
counsel pleaded for him. but all lias been in
i vain. nine persons demanded that he should
ibe strangled. their demand coincided with
the predetermination of the governor and
council. we are sorry, and almost ashamed
|to publish such a decision of the stale exe
cutive. the judicial killiug oi such a man
under such civeumstauces will not soon be
’forgotten. it will be remembered to the
:sorrow of those who should have spared him.
it will be remembered and told of with intense
feeling, til! capital punishment shall have
been blotted from our statute book. the
following remonstrative document is in circu
j ist ion lor signatures.
protest.
we, the undersigned, solemnly protest
against the intended execution of washing
ton goode, as a crime in which we would
under no circumstances participate, which we
would prevent if possible, and in the guilt of
which we will not, by the seeming assent of
silence, suffer ourselves to be implicated,
j we believe that the execution of this man
w ill involve all who are instrumental in it in
the crime of minder—of the murder in cold
hi< od of a helpless fellow being.
the arguntents by w hich executions an*
generally defended are wholly wanting here.
the prisoner is not one who in spite of good
instruction and example, for purposes of
avarice, revenge, or lust, jeliberatelv planned
the murder of a fellow being. the intended
victim of law was a man of misfortune from
built, made by his social position and still
more by the color which god gave him, the
viciitii of neglect, of oppression, of prejudice,
of all the evils indicted upon humanity by
man. if in a paroxysm of drunken rage be
lil'ed his opponent, (and this is the utmost
alleged against him) his case comes far short
of premeditated murder,
j but even this fact is extremely doubtful.
'lt is supported only by the most suspicious
testimony, and such as, even if honest, was
trom the nature of the case extremely liable
to mistake, and such as would not have
weighed u ith any jury to touch the life of a
white man. and since tite trial, facts have
come to light, materially lessening uie credi
bility of the evidence which led to conviction.
the glaring unfairness of his mode of trial
is of itselt sufficient ground for this protest.
the maxim w hich gives to the accused a
i trial by his peers was t setitially violated. in
a community' where sympathy with the
.colored tnan is a rare and unpopular senti
ment, the prisoner should have been tried bv
a jury composed partly, at least, of his own
‘race this violation of the principles of
equal justice demands our solemn protest
we claim also that the petition of more
than 20,000 ol otir feilow-citizens to have
this man spared, demands respect. such a
t number of voluntary petitioners ail upon one
side, indicate* the will of tbe sovereign peo
pie of the state that the penalty should be
1 commuted our respect for the right of the
j people to a voice and a just influence in tho
administration of public justice, also de
mauds this solemn protest against the legal
murder of washington goode.
from lly christian citizen.
casrew of nations.—peace meeting la
worcester.
un sunday evening. april 2vth. a meet
ing of the citizens of this town waa held ts
the city hall, having been called to coo-
i aider tbe proposed arrangements for a con
gress ofnattons.
the meeting wn» railed to order by j. mil*
ton earle, and oo umuoo, albert tolman wte
i chosen moderator of tbe meeting,
i mr. hal* read the following resolutions,
which bad been put talu hi* hands by the
i committee of arrangement* for tfua meeting.
i*t. resolved, that we deem tbs cause of
peace to hfve paramount claim* on tbe atten
tion of christian philanthropists, and that they
are bound by every principle of humanity tc
give their efforts for the abolition of the erne i,
j destructive, and demoralizing practice of war.
•id. resolved, thai the proposal of peace
societies ia great britain and america, for a
to bo composed of delegate* from
coogre.., jo the snango
*ll nations who
■ml, (h the jwrpue' of totiamf
mnsimml by which *»r itttitre di»*
pa lea a»y be aftcrusid* adju«|pd. «»pem u»
the hom of a mlf*'. inimical ami e(m«*l
method bj w ar- mar b«* fi> r?,pr f***
vested
3d. rlholvrd. that w** took apoo the tale
congress at bruto>:u for tiro parptro. aa an
important and auspicious enal »n tbe history
of oat age: and sec in tfo; *|>inl of baniwmy
and christian l**oe\ulecce which guided its
discussion*- a cheering mdicaliom of tbe ad
vancing poufs*tkui ut ft* work!
4th. reoohrtl. that \*e highly a of
the zealous aa*l arduous ffoit* ma«fo by our
gifted countryman. fjihu burrh in thbcause,
and sympathize: warmly with bun, and grate
fully acknowledge the generous co-operation
sven to them by ctniuenl friends of peace m
ritsin, and on tbe continent of europe.
sth. resolved, that we earnestly request
all citizens of tbe united states who are siu
cereiy desirous of promoting the peace oi tin
world, to make efforts that a strong and able
delegation may be e-eut from this country, to
tbe great convention for a congress of nn
tioos to be held at paris, in the ensuing month
of august.
peace eagres* at paris in aagns*.
me. drew:— dear sir,—l have made the
following favorable and liberal arrangements,
with messrs e. train co. of boston, for
the accommodation of such of the .delegates
to the peace convention at paris, in august
next, as may wish to take passage in their
line of packets.
tickets will be furnished each delegate en
titling him to a passage to liver jkk>l and back
in their fine line of sailing packets, for one
hundred dollar*. passengers may leave bos
ton on the sth of july in the plymouth rock,
cap*. caldwell, a new vessel of 1000 tons,
j with two cabins. they may return in that
vessel on the2oth august, or. in any other
vessel of the same line, on the sth or 20th of
each succeeding month. the plymouth rock
went out in her first and only trip, to liver
pool in 14 days. the ships of this line, make
their trips out in 14 to 20 da\s; hack, in 20 to
30, usually.
with mr. train, the principal owner of this
line, i have been well acquainted tor some
twenty years. he stands high in the esti
mation of tho mercantile community. fr<»m
what i have seen ofcapt. caldwell, i should
think he would give good satisfaction to those
who may sail under his care. he is regarded
as an able and gentlemanly commander.
it is desirable that messrs. train co.
should be informed as soon as the 10th of june
how’ many are disposed to avail themselves ol
this offer.
all peace societies, and leagues of uni
versal brotherhood will do well, therefore, to
make their choice of delegates immediately,
.and inform mr. j. p. blanchard of boston, or
the subscriber.
it is supposed that some of the colleges
j might be disposed to send delegates, and pru
j bably some of the various humane and phil
anthropic societies. should such he the case,
i they may go out under the same genr-nl ar
rangement, by giving notice as above,
i no creed is imposed on those who take part
,in this convention. they are expected to he
the sincere friends of permanent and universal
peace, and in favor of discussing a plan for
i the establishment of a congress of nations to
[form a code of international laws, and a high
jdourl of arbitration, for the adjustment of in
tflmational disputes.
e|fcnqtiiries will be made in regard to the ex
f pehse of a passage for such delegates as may
choose to go out in the steam packets, and the
information will he communicated hereafter.
amasa w.vxkkk.
i north brookfield, may 4, 1840.
p. s. the other necessary expenses need
not exceed 100 dollars. from liverpool, the
delegates all of whom it i$ presumed will wish
to see something of flbglanu, will go by lail
road to ijondon, aud then by the w ay of brigh
ton, or some other port on the british channel
to france perhtps sstnewrmngcmente may
made in england which will much reduce lh<?
expenses of the delegates while in that coun
try
editors willing to aid this object are le
quested to copy this notice.
the north star.
rochester, may 18, 1849
visit to new york.
calmly and comfortably seated upon onrj
editorial stool, in the stillness of our closet, 1
shut out from the bustle and confusion of
new york so annoying to one unaccustomed
to the noise and jar of a large city, we pro
pose now to give our patient readers, a brief
account of some things which we have seen,
felt, heard and experienced, since we parted
from ihem two weeks awn no reformer
needs to be told that ihe may meetings, or
anniversaries at new york, bring together
fiom year to year the most earnest men of
the land, and present to the world the most
tangible test of the moral activity, and the
amount of moral excellence in the nation to.
be found anywhere. this is admitted. the,
great light of nearly all the moral, religious'
and humane movements of the age and nation
may lie seen in new york during the week
devoted to the anniversaries. t' e cause of
the poor, the halt and blind, the sailor, and
prisoner the widow anil orphan, the slave
and the heathen, —all come up for o nsidera
i
tion benevolent societies, of almost every:
desetlplion claim the attention and sympathy
of the public eloquence is poured out like
water m behalf of the peace,
anti-slavery and motal reform causes. warm
hearts and strong minds are at work among
them all, and all must and will he heard. wej
shall not pretend to give our readers any ac
count of all these anniversaries. it is im
possible hu us to dost), li is almost impos
sible to do justice to the proceedings of any
one of these societies. they each in the
short space of three or four hours, pour,
out matter enough to fill volumes.
we shall only attend to the meetings of
the friend* of that movement nearest to our,
hearts, because the most irtdical, mcndless,
i hated, and dleaded—the anti-slavery move
'incut. the first of tliese. was the anni
versary meeting of the american auti-a'ave
ry society. it assembled tuesday bth may,
in the tabernacle, broadway. and notwith
standing the increasing unpopularity of this
society, and the heavy ram, its meeting was
more largely attended than we ever remember
to have seen it before. the vast hall was
nearly full, there beiog perhaps not fewer than
tweoty-five handled persons jeesent. at ten
o'clock the chair was taken by william
lloyd gabmsok, pres idem of the societv,
who, after seggestiog the fitness of invoking
the smiles of god upon our efforts, and re
turning thanks for ihe blessed results which
have thus far attended our intro
duced rev. 8. mat, of boston, ts the meet
ing, who supplicated the throne of deviae
mercy, in a solemn and impressive manner.
william lloyd garrison proceeded to read
aumersca ex tracts from sacred writ against
oppression, injustice, and slavery, which
told very sensibly upon the assembly.
passu pillule y of new hampshire,—
a veteran arm-slavery lecturer who baa pro
tofetj touted harder mud faagei itea her
•*tre« i«i *h»«y lectxerr now io tte tem—
a* few regular speech uh the
mr. piluburr seldom speaks aanivereary
orcaatoos. we never beard him o» sach as
onsaiui before. a quiet, unassuming but
powerful man. be should never be allowed i®
remain silent when there is an eppottsnitv te
be beard. his remarks on this occasion were
original,weighty, full and clear. he was list
ened to with marked attention. though eoo
trouted by the imposing presence of luge
body of d’tsnei, yet with his characteristic
boldness, he subjected tbeii american church
to a most thorough and biting exposure, quo
ting largely from documents emanating from
tbe dergy. when his remarks were ended,
no man of them all dared to deny a stogie
charge, or to take exception to a single re
mark: thus by their silence folly ratifying the
charges which mr. p. so pointedly and pow
erfully brought against them.
mr. pillsbury was followed by wendell
phillip* of boston, lie cauie upon the
platform with lus usual easy and majestic
sir. the audience appeared io expect much
i ami received all they expected. the man
seemed to have been with his god teaming
his duty immediately irom the lips of deity.
he sp«>ke as if lo» stood alone in the world,
despising utterly all the wisdom of men,
trampling upon time hallowed, but worthless
institutions, forgetting to conceal his real con
victions in order to gain influence over those
who differed from him. in the spirit of a
true man. a follower of christ, be rebuked all
timeserving hypocrites, all seekers aftet ioflu
lence, exclaiming that “god did not send him
into the world to get influence, but to do hil
duty." he believed influence gained in any
manner inconsistent with an honest discharge
of duty to be worthless. it is the faithful
man, even without a single follower that ii
the truly influential man. mr. phillips made
a long speech, but he could not well hav«
been shorter, to have done ju&tice to hie
i subject or to have met the wishes of hit
i audience. we have often heard mr. phillips,
i and sometimes when he was more eloquent
1 than on the present occasion, but never whet:
i he was more truthful and earnest than at this
i
time. the audience must have received
'powerful impression from that speech. fred
1 erick douglass followed mr. phillips, but the
ateness of the hour and the already exhaust
-j «d energies of the audience led him to defei
his intended remark* for subsequent meet
’j in" of the society.
the platform of this anniversary was
11 adorned by the usual array of anti-slaverj
j; faces, francis jackson of boston, georgi
r benson of northampton, isaac t. hopper, o
new york, f.pmvnd qdincy of dedham
ti llcrktia mot*t, of philadelphia, willian
w. brown, of 80-ton, abby, kelli
j foster, s. 8. foster, and rev. samuei
ir' may, were among the most familiar. it war
good to behold these earnest men and w omen
dead to the low moral standard of theii
i times, indifferent to the smiles or frowns o
jj the world, disregardful of the pitiful pre
jndice against color which everywhere per
mvadesthe country, boldly reaching out the
_ hand of manly assistenc* and brotherhood tc
tl i our long neglected race.
r! willinm lwjrdgtrrimni, had less to say on
this occasion than usual for him w>e learned
i that :t was on account of the recent lost of a
-j beloved sou— a sore affliction, in which
i however he does not suffer alone. the
sincere condolence of every friend of the
slave is with hint and his dear family. the
annivetsary was one of the most imposing
and impressive that we have ever attended,
j and we have tm doubt that it will be long
i remembered with sincere interest by the
numerous anti-slavery friends who attended
rj and participated in its proceedings.— f. d.
anniversary of the amer. and foreign
a. s. society.
this body mei in the afternoon immediately
after the adjournment of the american anti-
slaveiy society. we were unable to be
present 3t its commencement, or to remain
(lurid" its entire proceedings. we heard only
an abstract of its annual report read by ijewis
tappan, esq. the documents seemed to
give a minute history of events affecting the
anti-slavery cause during the last year, and
will doubtless ire valuable. after the reading
of the report was finished, the president an
nounced that music would be the next thing
in order; thereupon four little boys known as
the lucca family, came upon the platform,
and sung an antt-slavery song to tire tune of
old dan much to the amuse
ment of the audience. they were encored,
and greatly gratified their audience by com
pliance. this slopping at such a stage in the
proceedings of so grave an assembly, to have
a tune performed by a boy, on the piarrr,
6truck us as rather wanting in taste, to say
the least. at the dose of this song, mr.
bibb took the platform u> second a resolution
proposing to give bibles to the
made a long speech in fivorof this toast ah*
surd and extraordinary proposition.* the
speech was as absurd m the pmgmuton it
was intended to support. we* ftnfre adleif
heard mr. bibb, and generally with flnww
and profit, especially when
hthi-*olf to a statement of ins aa poicml
sufferings as a slave, arid those®
still in cruel bondage. cpon
mr. bil*b is always interesting, lodiin *»g, and
powerful. beyond lint he is
and powerless.
his address on the present occasion was
made up of a most illogical display of cant
phrase* about the bible, its power to abolish
slavery if given to the slave, dte. it was a
poor thing, which would do very well for that
namby-pamby aaae of persons in ooj country
who care a great deal about the souls of men
but care nothing for their budie». there are
many such in this country, who would give a.
dollar towards giving the slave a bible, but
who would not give a cent to give the slave
himself. the epc ech might have been a very
proper one for the anoiveraary of the ameri
can bible society—made op in part of slave
holders and slave-trader*—bat it sounded qeite j
odd in an anti-slavery meeting.
we did not stay till mr. bias finished hia
speech, but led him beating the air. we
were informed that mr. wajuj followed mr.
bibb, and made a speech which greatly re
lieved the audience of the stupor tadneed by
listening >o mr. bine.
tpon this matter of giving btbiea to the
slave we have a lew gpaarka to make, and a
few questions to ask. the first is that from
ih« im ultte «f tike relation *f master and
slave it does seen impose hie to give the wile
to the slave without the coosent ef the j
ter. he m pmpcrty ta the eye af bis mmtrr
not leaa than m the eye <»f ib« law. and it i
doea ueemal obvious to comwoo acose t|ptj
froftrty ran not i»im praprr/y, even »n the i
ahapeof a bible. it is equally plain that the j
slaveholder is not likely to give his consent to i
aay measure which will in any way*"destroy
or decrease the value of bis property in hu-
man flesh. nor is it less plain that the con-
sent of the slaveholder to give bibles must be i
obtained, it obtained at a!!, by some one in no
way suspected ot abolitionism.
these positions being uue. bow is it possi
ble that the slave can have the bible, while
they remain under the power and eoauol of
their masters it is all well enough perhaps
to say that the slave might to have the bible;
to say that, as a human being, hr is entitled
to it, and that we ought to give it to him. but
the question of its practicability w ill still force
itself upon the mind, and demand how this
thing is to be done the bible, no more than
any other book, lias within itself the power
of locomotion, ami if it goes from the north
to the south it must lie earned. the ques-
tion is who will cany the bible and give it toj
the slave vv ill mr. bibs 1 will those who j
encourage him to advocate the measure go
thete and circulate the bible they mean
to do no such thing, at least im the present
state of the public mind there. the truth is,
slaveiy and the bible are at war with each
other, and the slave cinnot really have the
bible while in* r* a slave. our duty is there
fore to devote all our energies to giving the
j slave to himself as the only condition upon
which the slave can have the bible.— v. n.
1
the new york vigilance committee.
—this body held its anniversary at the fhil
oah presbyterian church, corner of prince aud
marion streets, on tuesday evening, bth may.
the secretary, rev. c. 13. ray, made a very
interesting report of the doings of the com
mittee during the past year, showing that
more than two hundred souls had been
ed from slavery to a land of freedom, and im
parting many interesting items of interest coo
nected with their escape. as an evidence of
the interest taken in this committee we may
state that gerrit smith, who lias made his
purse strings the common properly of the
anti-slavery cause, has recently sent his draft
i to the committee, allowing them to draw upon
him lor five hundred dollars the present yeai,
and largo sums have been received from other
sources. after the report was read, freder
ick douglass was called to the platform and
addressed the meeting for nearly an hour.
he w as followed by dr. win. elder of phil
adelphia. he took his text, a single passage
in the letter of gerrit smith to the vigilance
committee, treating slavery as a war upon the
government of god. and such a speech we
never heard before, and hardly ever expect
i ta hear again. it was neither fish, flesh, not
j fowl, but something more and better than
i eitner. clear as a sunbeam, dispensing light
and heal at the same time it was the most
powerful, biting, withering, warming, melt
ing, and biilliant speech that we ever listened
to. it makes cue's head ache to think of it.
he, however, took the liberty to use profane
language in his speech, w hich would not tic
allowed iu any one jess a genius than himself,
and which he might well dispense with. the
meeting of the vigilance committee was one
of the best which we attended during our
visit to new york.— r. n.
i
kidnapping in caroline county,—the
denton (md.) journal says that on the night
of the sth inst. an t.trocious outrage was com
mitted in caroline co. the circumstances
are as follows: three :ree negro youths, a
girl and two boys, were kidnapped and taken
from the county with intent to sell them to the
south. their names are margaret davis,
harrison hubbard and james clarkson. they
had been hired for a few days by mr. james
t. wooters, near denton, for the ostensible
purpose of cutting corn-stalks. after being
a day or two in mr. water's employ they
suddenly disappeared, and no one could learn
j aught of their wheieabout. a suspicion of
their being forcibly kidnapped soon took pos
session of the public mind, and inquiry being
set on foot, it was. after some days, discover
ed that they had been secretly carried through
huntington (‘reek toward worcester co.
thence to virginia. we learn that the ne
groes. are now in not folk. efforts are being
made to return them to their parents. several
others are implicated with mr. w outers, in
this outrage, one of whom, mr, smith w.
cockran, is now in jail. a mr. parker of
kent co. negro dealer, is said to have act
ed a principal part in the matter. the offi
cers are now on the look-out for wooters and
otheis, who are supposed to nave engaged in
the kidnapping.
the coalition in wisconsin.
the new york tribune gives the basis of
union adopted by the democrats and free
soilers of wisconsin, which is the adoption
by each p&tty of all the distinctive principles
of the other, so that the new creed is formed
by ti»e rule of .simple addition. the,
democrats,” as ceu. cass's supported call
from the free soilers, and
eto maintain following:
(lave territory, not slave
of all i'nited states laws
./holding slavery at vvash
rohibition in the
new m' flmhflfcaltfoinia.
uion —njhhspeaftcr to
lands to m imii
(pft’flttmmß»acl|ial settler* foi the cost of sur-
appropriations by congress fru
hmebd harbor improvements.
jft. filial suffrage foi men of all colors.
so far, the principles came from the reform
side. the following are taken from the 'oth
er side
b. no tariff at all, the federal govern
ment to be supported by direct taxation.
it. no national bank—-no deposit of gov
eminent funds in any bank—the sub-trea
sury.
the following ts not peculiar to either or
any party
10. liberal exemption* of both real and
personal property from sale on execution.
such is the compound basis on which the
coalesced party has agreed to act hereafter,
and union meetings ate now convened
throughout the state to ratify and cement the
coalition.
a brest or am abolition ist. —jar* is c.
bvcon has been indicted and arrested at
grayson, va., charged with circulating abo
lition documents. the documents were a
sermon preached m philadelphia, and the
life of frederick douglass.
philadelphia scbsckimrs who have failed
to get their papers for some weeks past, will
please to call for them at gao. w. gomes'
office, 8, exchange place, lombard stream
they will be seat thn ugh the post- oflke hem-
tw hnmwa cuttle market.
there must liatc been 70 to ttw*,
ftotn 15 to 30 year* of sgc. all (both m*n
and women) were dressed to ret them off
the beet advantage. which is always the ca*«-
it there sales. s»'rer:«| of the colored girl*,
evidently the fiaughrtr r> of white h*.]
their rewind work with them, a* evidence oi
their skill in that department. the whole
were arrsnged under a kind of verandah. har
ing a joot-beoch to stand ip. n. and tiw-ir hacks
resting against the wj»ll. none were m aov
way tied or chained; but two white men (sooj
dmers, i suppose) were tsuiitenof about )n
front of theta, each w l’h a ng: r in his mouth,
a whip ander his arm, and his hands m hu
pockets, looking up for purchasers. in its
externa] asjiect, the exhibition was not alto-
ether unlike w hat 1 have sometimes seen in
igland, wjicrc ssune wandering italian ha*
ranged against a wall h s bronzed figures of
distinguished men. it was between |-j and i
in the <lajr; hut there w as tin crowd—not even
a single boy or girl looking on—so common
and every-day was th character of the scene
at we moved along in front of this sable row
one of the w hite attendants (though iny wife
had hold of my arm) said to me. with all the
nonchaiano of s southfield cattle-drover
“ljooking out for a few niggers this morn
ing*" never did 1 feel my manhood so insult
ed. my indignation burned lor expression
but i endeavored to affect indifference, and
answered in a don't care sort of tone, “no,
1 ui not particularly »n want of anv to-day
1 could scarcely finish the sentence, emotion
checked my utterance. i passed on, gazing
at the troop of degraded humane beings till
my eves became so tilled with tears that i wa»
compelled to turn my face another way.
though i anticipated such scenes, and hail
tiled to prepare my numl for them, vet now
that they were actually before me, i was com
pletely overcome, and was obliged to seek a
place to sit down whiie 1 composed my feel
ings. with what sentiments iny companion
beheld tjhe scene, i will leave you to conjec
ture.. it was saturday morning, and with mv
professional habits, i naturally thought of ihv
many divines in that very city, who were at
that moment shut up in their studies prepar
ing their discourse lor the morrow. 1 wished
i had them all before me. 1 could have given
every one of them a text to preach from. i
would have said—(lentlemen, see there, and
blush-fm you follow citizens. see there 1
and never again talk of american liberty'
see there and lift up your voices like so
many trumpets agatnst this enormity see
there' and m the face of persecution, poverty,
imprisonment, and if needs be; even death it
self. bear your faithful testimony, arid cease
not until this tout stain be wiped away from
your national escutcheon. j)i. s., to.moirow
morning let ibis be your text, ‘‘where is a-
ixd, thy brother'” dr. if., let your discourse
jl>e founded on kxndos xxt. 10, “and he that
stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he bo
foil mi in his hand, be shall surely be put to
j death. \mi the rev. mr, let your gay
i and wealthy congregation be edified with a
bolenm and impressive sermon on isaiah ivitt.
0, “is not tins the fant that 1 have chosen, to
loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the
heavy burdens, and to let the oppressvd go
free, and that ye break every yoke!” and
you, tiie rev. mr. 11., let your bearers have
iu full and taillifu! exposition of that aw
w hich is fulfilled in one word, even in this—
i“tliou shall love thy neighbor a* thyself.”—
davis's tour in america.
i the writer of the hook from which the
j above extract is taken, was for a number oi
iyears a missionary in new amsterdam, bet
htce—sent out by the london missionary su
'cietv. his book has been noticed favorably
anil unfavorably by the press in this country
and in england. the boston reflector and
watchman copies, with approval, an extract
jfrom the london baptist magazine, and at
i the same time takes the opportunity, although
the writer does not appear to have seen the
book himself, to make the gratuitous, and it
does appear to me, so far at least as lie can
judge, most unwarrantable assertion, that mr.
d-ttniscame to this country,determined, af
ter the manner of the famous mrs. trollops
and others, not to see anything in our religion,
1 morals, laws, manners and habits, worthy of
commendation.” the notice on the. credit of
j which the boston reflector has formed this
estimate, is evidently a caricature. and
there is a reason lbr it. the course pursued
by mr. davis contrasts so strongly with that
which the baptist deputation a lew years
i since thought fit to adopt, that the blindness
|ol the writer in the baptist magazine to the
'merits of the book is not by any means sur
piising. i will quote a js>rlion of the extract,
■leavingout the iidiculous part of it, in which
mr. davis i 3 accused of the very unpardona
hie offence of having cal fed the steamers on
the mississippi monsters, find it is men
honed as a grievous crime, that he should tell
jsucli things about the church accommodation
(south, that in one place “lie had to walk
|down the aisle coveted with snow with
these things i have no concern. let mr. dv
-1 vis, and the baptist magazine, and the boston
reflector, settle them, it ihey can, to the sa;-
isfaciiuri of all parties. but it docs appear t.»
me that a person pretending to give an ac
count of vi bat he secs, should tell just what
he does see, whether he runs the risk of lic
king taunted with trollopisin or not. he can
i not !>e held accountable for the facts. they
nay not please everybody. it is a singular
j thing, but not leas true than it is singular, that
facts, in these days of wrong-doing, are jus;
ithe sort ut things that are most sure to dis
please a very considerable proportion of read
ers. che lseu tell either against thetnsdie-,
their interests, or their prejudice*; therefor.-
they dou i like them. but for the extract
it is quite clear that mr. davis has win
t<jm h;s b<m»u under the influence of strong
prejudices against the american people, be
cause of then connection with slavery. in
lus ablioirence of this system, we join him
fully and heartily hut we submit that in his
i hatred to slavery he should not forget the can
dor ol a gentleman, or the spirit of a chris
tian. abuse will not hasten the day of free
dom. why shcuhi he hold up to public
reorn the social habits of the
we icgret that a eerffi of dutv has
compelled us n> write in a attain of eenauic
upon the book before us. and we now coo
elude by uttering a protest against t mists,
voyagers, and book-makers, w hetber english
men or americans, holding up the customs
and habits of each other's country to reproach
and derision in crude and wort bless publica
tions
now, 1 leg to submit, with all deference to
such high authority as the editor of the bap
list magazine undoubtedly is, that tbo gratui
tous dictation of what ought to be the tub
ject* and the style to which books roust to
written, is rather too high a responsibility for
any mere mortal, of not more than oxtraord:-
oary judgment, to assume. any aod uverj
rozn ha* a right to hold up to reproach sod
the habits aod customs of any country
i if those habits and customs are worthy of re
pvwach and derision—provided always that
ibis ia done under the influence of a worthv
ohjoet. there are some—indeed, many ebar
respecting whom the simple troth is
u»* gunk* u putsch. will the baptist
magazine affirm that it was wrong to pro
claim the etimo of tawsu., or coeavotatza,
or any othor rapotod tospoctabte villain, because such proclamation would subject him to reproach. if the sentence above quoted
t,is arty meaning, it lead* to the inevitable
{uoclutton that he would we might have
vpeeted something better from the magaxine
nan the resuscitation of that silly and long
>tnc e exploded elap-tiap au*ut making books
~n each other's country.” a man's right*
i citizen of the world arc above those which
can elv:n as a emien ot any particular
eountrv manhood is above nationality,
wve ini’ the man who t* prepared to merge
'.it love tor the particular spot of earth, called
it father land, in his larger and mure com
prehenstvc love for god's world, it may b<
k heterodox and unpopular sentiment, bul
i rai n >t help thinking that w hat we have lo i
•■•t* l ili« habit ol calling patriotism,*' u
i. .thing more nor leu than a kind of expand
id selfishness. w e love to hear of the sue*
ot our country's schemes, not becacw
ifiov 1 scheme* are right and good in them*
»e!v.*!», hut because the country is our*, and
t.rsuor is reflected upon us in its greatness.
w e even feel angrv at those who tell u? ol
•-ur country’s faults ami short-coruings —just
we do sometimes when a friend tells us ol
our own failings. an appeal to tins senti
ment hi nn-ru ans against mr. davis's book,
ulterly unworthy of the high standing end
.•-portability claimed by the iiapiisi .magazine.
mr davis, living in llcrbicc, ha«l been ac
customed to tin 1 colored people there iveing
considered and treated as men. perhaps even
jm> own efforts were eiueiiy directed to their
instruction and elevation. what more likely,
lien he came to tics country, than that the
..ihruted stale of the coloied american should
the subject of his especial remark as to
ihe quality ol the book, ami its being classed
amongst crude and worthless publications,”
utv one must judge for himself, the
■mi of the haptist editor notwithstanding.—
i tie extract given above will help the reader
a conclusion. there are a few in this
country who will not consider the book worth*
v->. it it helps to expose the wrong-doing of
he waked, and to hasten the dav of deli ver
se- lor the oppressed. nor will they ask,
i order to their arriving at a just judgment of
merits, whether ii was written by an
\nieriean, an kugiimunan, or a ilollentot.
sli.n ificant twilmow.— theft! is a
<i ;s. (.(people m this country —unfortunately!
a laige class—w ho take little if any interest
ui iclor.natory movements—who profess lobe,
■xc«;-.«ivcly tender of the feelings and opin
ions of tlieir neighbors,—who go to church
old would have it believed that they arc re-
ij lulls, and ail thai. —and as evidence of their
igion, hold up their hands in holy abhor
rice of ihe sin of ultraism. the new ork
inquirer, giving an account ot the aniversaiy i
meetings in new voik, has this short para
graph, which such persons may read with ad
v autage: —“the indifference of this commu
nity to the subject ot emancipation is not to
in: ascribed, however falsely wre may flatter
ourselves, to the extravagance of its ultra ad-;
\ocates. at the meeting of the american and i
foreign anti-slavery society at the tabei-i
cade on tuesday afternoon—a society which)
lakes strict care to say nothing against the
constitution or tin* church, although wc do
not claim to know all good or decisive men
in new york, we saw not one single face be
longing to an influential member ol society in
this citv whether clerical or lay' and the
colonization society, to which we hurried in
the evening, determined to see the three
forms of op, »-it on to slavery on the same
platform, on successive portions of the same
day, had abandoned its meeting for want of
interest—a lamentable commentary on the icy
indifference of our community in a subject
which should make the very stones cry out.
have not the abolitionists some apology for a
li r y /eal and an absnrtied devotion to the one
therne of of immediate abolition under circum
stances like these 7
tribute of respect.
at a special meeting of the new york!
\t'rica:i society for mutual relief, held agiee
a.my to public notice on friday evening, april!
i*l9, the president announced the death of j
samuel ennalls, lor a number of years presi- j
dent of the society, whereupon the following;
preamble and resolutions were unanimously
adopted
whereas, it has pleased the supreme ku-i
ler of the fniverse to remove by deatli ourj
brother, samuel f.nualls, for a number of
years president ol this society, therefore,
resolved, thai while we humbly acqui
esce in the dispensations of ]jivine provi
dence, we sincerely lament the demise of our
ex-president.
resolved, that we sincerely condole with
ilie family of the deceased in their severe be
reaveinent —in ihe loss ol husband 3nd
father.
resolved, that as a token ol respect for
the deceased, we wear the usual badge ot
mourning lor thirty days, and that the llall ol
the society be shrouded in black.
resolved, that as a fmtlier evidence of re
spect, we attend ihe funeral of the deceased
in a body.
resolved, that a copy ot the above reso
lotions be tendered to ihe family of the de
ceased. and that they be published.
j. j. /title, sec y.
new york. april 7, 18^'*.
the suvt makkli.— washington april
>7. my last report gave the movements ot
tuesday, the last market day, when fifty
in-ad changed hands at gi>od prices, so tar as
known. ii should ih‘ noted however, tliat
i»oih buyers and sellers seem little inclined to
give publicity to then proceedings. from
mils reason the rej*ort* must he necessarily
macurale and imperfect. t learn, however,
from a g« ntleman who attended at the
shambles this morning, mat six loniaien were
taken, young and kkely, at an average of
live bundled dollars a head, —for the south
ern market. they were &hip|>ed by the cars
this morning. purchasers would do well iu
aitend there in great numbers, as tio depot in
itin i'niied stales offers greater advantage*.
at the seat of the federal government dealer#
m this article aie protected by its power, and
are exempt from many but then* and prohibi
tions that restrict the traffic in the states.
v. y. ere. post■
philasthaopy —(iernt smith h making
arrange .cuts to present deeds of land, gene
rally iroiu 30 to 40 acres, together with 10
in money each, to one thousand poor and
landless white jnrsous, apportioned among
the counties of the state. the number of bene
ficiaries in monroe will] u* gn.
they are to be equally divided between the
sexe*, and the recipients must be vntuous,
and entirely clear ol the vice of drinking in
toxicating drmk*. he says most of the laud is
ot an inferior quality, and some of it may turn
out to be worthies* for farming purposes. if
lie fails to furnish a deed of land to any of the
persons selected, he will give them fu) acres
of government laud. he has already given
jooo deeds of land to that number of colored
g ersoits.
■ft
communications.
freho«*« mart ft*.
ftn>kkick dotglcw —am not of
those who how down at ibe ahrine of the vie
torioua hero, whose laurel* are covered with
human gore; ur chant praises to thone w ho
fall in the midst of battle, irrespective of the
principle* which triumph with him, or in con
tending for which, they offer up their lire* a
willing memento of their devotion. hut to
thoee who do, or dare to die, from moral or
physical courage in the cause of truth, right,
liberty, principle- -the heart, m spile of teach
ing* to the contrary, renders the meed of
praise involuntarily.
to the moral heroism of christ, tn daring
to offer up his life in devotion to those princi
ples. the advocacy and application of winch
are calculated to render earth a paradise the j
moral courage, devotion, and martyrdom of*
1-jvejoy and torrey m enforcing those princi
ples the soul-inapiring deed* performed by a
tell, a bruce, a w ashingtoa, or a tousaint
i/ouverture: the chainless spirits of a natha-:
niel turner, madison, w ashmgton.or joseph
cinque —all meet a response in the human
heart, whether it be deemed expedient to ex
press it or not
hut it is mv purpose at present to render a
tribute to an unknown hero, to record the;
deed* of valor of a nameless general, to chant 1
praises to an unsung martyr.
in the national anti-slavery standard, of
the 3d mat., appeared a paragraph (from the
houston republican) containing the follow-;
ing patticulars:—“ it appears that mr. llig-.
gapon attempted incorrect a negro man in his
employ, who resisted, drew a knife, and stab
bed him (mr. h.) tn several places. a mr.
j. c. hobbs, a tennessean, ran to his assist-i
ance. mr. hobbs stooped to pick up a stick
to strike the negro, and while in that position j
the negro rushed upon him, and with a dirk'
inflicted a wound in his left hteast, which
caused his immediate death. the negro then i
fled to the woods, but was pursued with dogs;
and soon oveitaken. he had stopped in a*
swamp to fight the dogs, when the party who,
weie pursuing came up, ami commanded him
to give up, which he refused to do; he then 1
made several efforts to stab them. mr. rob
ertson, one of the party, gave him several
blows on the head with a rifle gun, but this,
instead of subduing, only increased his re-,
venge. mr. r. then discharged his gun at
the negro, and missing him, the hall struck a
mr. hoon in the face, and felled him to the,
ground. the negro seeing mr. hoon pros
trated, attempted to rush upon him and stab
him, but was prevented by the timely inter
ference of some of the party. he was then
shot three times with a revolving pistol, and
once with a rifle, and after having his throat
cut, he still kept the knife firmly grasped in
his hand, and tried to cut their legs as they
approached to put an end to his life.” j
here we have one man attempting to mal
treat another; w hen he resists, in self-defence,
we see him rushed upon in coward numbers.
one makes an attempt upon his life with a
club he thwarts hirn by rendering him harm
less. he is next pursued by bloodhounds,
quadruped and biped his body is perforated i
with balls, las throat is cut, and yot, with the
noble spirit of a wronged freeman, be strikes
it tbe base vipers around him, and will only
field his right with his life, even to coward 1
lumbers.
had some american or texan marauder
fought so unyieldingly, in the violation ofi
mexican rights, he would be held up as a mod
el for the imitation of american youths, and
perhaps would receive the highest gift of
their fathers—the presidency. and yet this
noble man, though he fell a martyr to liberty
in the country which stands as a monument to
washington, and jefferson, and patrick hen-,
rv, and their compatriots, ts heralded around
as a shocking murderer—a desperado. well
might lowell exclaim, whilst looking at the'
monument erected to the martyrs of freedom
who fell at bunker hill, and contemplating j
the treatment that is meted out to her would
he worshippers at the south—
shame on ilii- costly mockery
of piling stone on alone,
to those who won our liliertv—
the lieroes dead and gone;
w lide we stand coldly by and see
law-shielded rulliana slay
the men that fain would win thsir own—
the h'-rocs of to-dav.
j. c. h.
brooklyn, may gth, 1649.
london, april 25, 1649.
mv dlak friend:—blaise pascal,
hi one of his provincial ictteis, says as an
apology for a long letter, that he had not
lime to write a shoit one.” so if you find
this too long and too meagre, assure yourself
that want ol time was the cause.
and now, before 1 become garrulous upon*
other matters, let me hold up thomas clark- i
son as a beacon to you, who, by a curves-!
pondence with 400 persons, writing hooks.,
traveling thousands of miles, and keeping lusj
mind bent on one subject, shattered to pieces
hts netvous system.
•what an anomaly is a yankee! wur-!
shipping at the shrine of woman, yet remain-j
mg unsusceptible of her refining influences. i
the lips that hymn her praises are defiled with’
the rank juice f the slave-tilled plant of vir-,
ginia, and its smoke ascends with the incense
of her votaiy’s adulation.
hut you will gently rebuke me liir willing!
about america lo those who, being there, are 1
more desirous of hearing about england.!
well—trade remains stagnant, giving ihc!
protectionists an occasion io charge the de-'
pression to the account of tree trade; ami!
meetings of the landholder, and tenant far
mers, are being held »n all pails oi the coun
try, in which gatherings mr. cobden is de-|
nounced as a mischievous demagogue.
the navigation law* abrogation bill is
also fiercely opposed, and a tuple alitancc is
forming between agriculture, h },j,, ovrilcw
and merchants tor the overthrow oi the bill
and ite authors. and ihe general opinion is;
that the house of lord* will reject this bill,,
and also that for the ireland “rate in aid.”'
if ihi* happen* it is thought the ministry will
retire. hut the navigation law. bill has
i passed the commons. it is certainly unlucky
i for tbe adv <cates of free trade that tbe inert
ness of coromeice should be coincident with
the abolition of tbe corn law*, for it ha* the
semblance of being a verification of the pre-,
j dictions of the protectionists.
the imagination can hardly picture what'
ireland's condition would now be, if the new
england*!*, when invited by cromwell toi
emigrate in that cuußilic featl mrt proposed
stipulations which »t wa* impracticable for 1
him to giant and unreasonable lot them to de
mand. j,
had the protect or’• tuni* been accepted, i
apring might now liebnld the bug* of ireland i
adorned by orchard uh»**vm*w; the luuunet,
her pasture* teeming wilh flocks and herd*; j
the autumn, her fertile soil exuberant with t
yellow crops and winlcr, nuug new england 1
cottages, instead of disgusting mud cabins. lj
(europe, since november, 1818, naa been a
political kaleidesrope, changing ita aspect i
daily.
the battle of novaira having thrown pied-j
niout at the ieet of austria, charles albeit
preferred abdication and exile to the wearing
of a crown by the sufferance of a hapaburg. 1
these events, so disastrous to the lode pen-,
dene** of italy, have caused a reactionary 1
revolution in tuscany, and the movement of 1
french, austrian and neapolitan troops into j!
the roman territories, with ihe object of re- 1
storing the pope, and the overthrow of the
roman republic. w hat a charm in this
name! it exhtlerates. whilst that ot pope-'|
dom benumbs.
the first calls up from the sculptured ruins
around, the lconsuls, the .senate,” thej'
ttibuncs of the people.’’ and the shades of;,
cato and cioero. but the lasi parade*before j
us a meretricious array ol priests following a i
huge wooden cross, ami the canopy snimoimt
ed pix, the symbol* of superstition and mum-!
mery. 1
in turning one's eye* to beautiful sicily, the
heart turns sick. the modern attila,**!
i
filanoitiu, delivering over catania to pillage, l j
massacre and female violation! worthy
agent of the neapolitan caligula.
the fall of messina. catarua and syracuse
i fear are the precursors of that of palermo.
patriotic sicilians! ye deserve a better fate j
but the achievements of the brave hunga
rians in the northeast, revive one’s fainting
hope. tin; austrians, croats and cossacks
have bee.i driven across the danulie, and even
vienna is menaced.
the discomfiture of denmark by the com
bined germans must cause even the obstinacy j
of the dane to waver. their maritime mea- 1
sures are mischievous to commerce. block-:
ade is a eowardly mode of warfare.
the failure of mediation between denmark
and geunany, naples and sicily, ami pied-'
raont and ausltia, is a sad discouragement to j
the advocates of arbitration.
from the booming of cannon, the explosion
of bomb-shells, the clashing of swords, tite
volleys of musketry, and the shrieks and i
groans of the wounded abroad, it is reviving j
to turn to the anniversary gatherings at home,
which are now giving a salutary animation to j
this illimitable metropolis.
here the peace lovers, the temperance ur
gers, the mere} dispensers, the animal protec
tors, the slavery hatets, the education promo
ters, and the gospel promulgators, assemble
to stimulate each other toellott and to encour
age by repotts of past success.
abroad, tyranny is warring against free
dom, and bigotry against light.
at home, instruction is fighting against ig
norance, moral goodnpss against vice, benefi
cence against penury, and truth against un
belt -f.
the atmosphere and ."dries'w+rfcti naverpstd
no respect to spring, show no kindliness to
the opening meetings and if atmospheric in
fluences operate, their ardor will ire damped
and their hope chilled.
with best wishes to yourselves and best re
spects to mr. douglass, i am, faithfully
yours. e. b.
the english at paris.
the soiree given to the visiters by the
prefect of the seine, on the night of tite 11th
inst. at the hotel de ville, passed off remark
ably well. the cards of invitation mentioned
8 1-2 o’clock. a few minutes after that
time the company began 10 assemble. as
soon as the english appeared in any numiier,
the b3tnl of the second leg;on of the national
guaids struck up “god save the queen,”
and, what ha* never yet occurred in france,
the national anthem was followed by “rule
britannia.” the “marsellaisc” followed
“rule britannia.” at 9 1-2 o’clock the
marquis ol nunnanby arrived, lfis lordship
was received bv the prefect, with whom, and j
m. odilon barrnt, he remained in conversation j
for half au hour. and. having walked with
them through the long suite of rooms, lie
withdrew. the refreshments were most
abundant, and of the very best possible quali
ty, and, for the convenience of strangers, a
number of english waiters were employed.
several sets of card tables where laid out for
whist, and were fully occupied.’ a second
military band was placed in the ball-room,
and perfoimed selections from the most popu
lar operas. the magnificent apartments of
the hotel wete so ventilated, that not the
slightest inconvenience was felt from tite
heat.—the prelect did the honors with dis
tinguished tact. he left nothing undone to
gratify hi* visiteib, who expressed their regret
that the city of l/indon did not possess any
building capable of receiving their french
friends. duriag the night the greatest cot
diality and the most earnest ami etiven
enthusiastic feeling were evident on the part
of the french to their visitets; and when
language failed to express their feelings (as
but few french spoke f.nghsh, and still fewer
english french,) expressive signs and mo
tions conveyed .what they mutually felt. the
english expressed their ladings in their own
way, and toward the end of the mlertainineut
gave three hearty cheers for tne prelect
which made the roof ring again. there were
about 2,000 persons present. the english
were of course in a minority. •some of the
most distinguished military men m paris, as
also civilians, wore present, and nearly the
whole ilat rnajirr ol the national ti'ianl as
a delicate compliment to the uonulitary ap
pearance of the strangers, very many of the
national guards appeared in plain clothes.
a select uumber of tin: english visitsra
were invited to a dinner in the salle n alea
line, in the rue st. honore, by the national
guard. the banquet took place on the 12th
inst.
on the 13th inst., the party of english
visiters quilted paris, and returned iu england
by way ol lioiognc, where they were enter
tained .it a grand ball.
cat'sr and cm or the potato hot.
aaevcy suggestion likely to be of service, on
a subject of so touch import am*. a wot thy
of atlei.uou. we insert from tbc mums jtny
i man the following
“one of our farmers, a few days since,
while in conversation on that subject, said he
planted hi* potatoes eailier this season than
usual, and ibat he dug and pui in his cellar
i some thirty ot forty bushel* before ihe rain
came on. these arc still perfectly sound,
while those which remained in the ground
during the recent heavy rain* are utterly
worthless. to the autumn laws many per
j sons lave attributed the rot, aad consequently
they put their ctops to »ery early, to enable
them to arrive at maturity before the heavy
ram commenced. the*xpctune«n mention
ed below may be considered ot some eonae
-1 queuce. as we bare see# it sufficiently tried.
a lady from mrsscmppi spent tha putmaoi
with her friends is oar uwu. the aji-aagrue
»«nc f übjtrt of the potato rat eras on lha
»ap«, when the observed, that in that region
utthjr of the planter* had been experiment
utf on that vegetable, aad the beat result waa
from transplanting the slips mto rows, similar
to the method nf rsluraimg the carnlisa
potato. her fnenda tned »u eipertmem, *uti
finer potatoes we have out aetai or eaten ut
tnxajr years. the potato is planted early is
a l.<h bed. and the dips, when about 3 iaehes
m leosrth, aie taken off ami transplanted rorar
hor 10 inches distant. the original will
continue to send forth shoots fora long
time.”
improvement of the kmc.
on sunday next two sermon* will be
preached, with the approval of the lord birin
op of chroter, in the morning’ at st. silas's,
and m the evening at st. lake's, by the rev.
alexander crummell, an african clergyman
of the protestant episcopal chorch in the
ended states of america, for an object which
cannot but be interesting to every religions
mind and every lover of the human tace.
the reverend gentleman himself, of whose
talent, unobtrusive worth, and piety, we have
previonslv had occasion to speak, has been for
rotno time ministering amongst his unfortu
nate african brethren in new \ork. ilia
congregation has been iu existence for ten
years; but their want of resources, coupled
with the discouragement thrown in the way
of every effort to ameliorate the social condi
tion of that race by the citizens of the model
republic, extended even to efforts for the sal
vation of their souls, have been sad draw
backs to the rogtess ma le by them in a field
where so much good is in prospect. they
have had to worship in hired rooms. their
poverty, and the want of support from ex
trinsic sources, has denied them the outward
and visible possession of a temple of the
lord; and they have more than once been
compelled to suspend their service, from ina
bility to pay the rent of a temporary place of
worship.
mr. crummell has been sent to this country
to endeavor to interest british christians in
the cause of his suffering brethren, the color
ed people oi new- york, a class numbering
20,000 persons, yet proscribed in that boasted
land of liberty of the privilege even of ap
proaching the throne of grace in the company
of a white man. it has been proposed to pur
chase a site in new york for a church, and
to erect an edifice of the plainest structure,
capable of holding from 800 to 1,000 persons;
and to enable his congregation to do this, they
appeal to the benevolence of the british na
tion. to promote this object, the sermons
referred to will lie preached by mr. crummell
on ►sunday next; and wc trust will not be
preached in vain. as a nation we have
shrunk from the great work of bearing the
blessings of freedtmt to the african but as
christians, we are bound to break through the
hard and selfish doctrines of political econo
my, and to 3id in the work of bringing the
unhappy african race to the know ledge of the
►savior who died for us all—for black as well
as for white.
\ve may remark ttiat mr. crummell bears
with him to this country letters and testimo
nials of undoubted character; and that any
collections which may result from his labors
of sunday next, will be remitted to a com
mittee of management sitting in london. it
may ba added that the object which he has in
view has received the hearty sanction of,
amongst others, the bishops of oxford, nor
wich, lwndaflf, &c., the earl of harrowby,
lord ashley, sir robert h. luglis, &c., and
we will only add our warmest thanks to those
of the clergy who have allowed their congre
gations an opportunity of contributing towards
such a noble object.
on sunday last, mr. crummell, after read
ing prayers at st. silas’ church, preached at
wallasey church iu the afternoon, when the
sum of jt’ll 10s. was collected. in the
evening he preached at christ church, when
great interest was excited on the subject of
his mission.— liverpool simulant, march is.
progress in ohio.
ala meeting of the “free democracy”
of portage county, 0., the following,
amongst other resolutions, were adopted.
they affoid gratifying evidence of the pio
gress of liberality in that slate. ohio is
advancing gradually towards the goal of
“no union with slaveholders.” read the
resolutions
resolved, that this convention, compos
ed of free citizens of the county of portage,
laying aside all past political differences, and
severing all past party attachments, in a com
mon purpose io preserve freedom upon a soil
that heaven has created free, and so preserve
our statute books from the stain and disgracei
of slavery enactments, adopts the great prin-|
eiple of equal rights vyith equal laws foi
all mankind, as the only sound, safe, and en-
during basis of our state, as well as our na
tional policy.
resolved, thatthe constitution of the state
of ohio, which limits the elective lranchise
to ‘all white male inhabitants,’ is inconsistent
with the lundamental principle which as
serts, that ‘all men are equally free and in
dependent.'
resolved, that the advancing spirit of the
age demands, and it is the duty of congress
i to separate the national government from the
1 support of slavery, and from all responsibility
for its existence, to prohibit slavery in all
places where it has exclusive jurisdiction, and
to repeal all its pro-slavery enactments, es
pecially those which perpetuate slavery in the!
district of columbia.
resolved. that we will uphold and sustain
these doctrines by every constitutional means
i within our reach, that we will watch for every
i opportunity to strike for freedom, and equalize
the rights of men until the last slave shall
have been liberated, and the last slaveholder
transformed into a consistent citizen of a re-
i public claiming the declaration of indepen
dence as an exposition of its sentiments.
other resolutions were passed, approving
lof the course of j. r. uhidings and s. p.
chase, and rejoicing over the repeal of the
i ohio black laws.
canadians don't want to be annexed, j
-±hon. col. tacbe, an influential canadian
from be loir quebec, replied to some remarks
in the legislative council, a few days since,
that “neither he nor the french population
wished lor annexation they were proud of
theit connection with england; and if aver
events arose to call tor the action of his coun
trymen in the matter, it would be found that
the last cannon fired against annexation
w ould be fired by the french canadians of
loner canada. it had been said that the
present government were powerless; bat he
roust say that if they appeared to fold their
armb und irok silwiilf ofl
ca*e for the course they had pursued was
adapted in order to save the effusion of blood.
they had made a call on the country, and
the government had at their command 16,000
in one part. 30,000 in another, and so on all
over l.*wer canada, both of the french and
irish and although these men were ready at
the call of government, yet toey had not, oa
their part, broken a pane of glass, notwith
standing the acts eoroouiied by the opposite
partv some of their friends thought it
would he necessary to call for their assistance;
but the governor general was opposed to this,
because they had the british—the gausnt
british— army tn defend the country, the
men composing which were always found to
obey ihc commands of the** «p*»r«w officer*.
was the govern*** then to blameu> keeping
hack, when the cause of their doing ao wa*
to avoid bloodshed
la mkkfietewa, caw. m*j w*. mw et»a-
abstii h. gabbisos. daagfctsr of gourpt sad
abigail ganisoa,
a true story
many yearsago i happened to be
one of the referee* in a case that exci
ted unusual interest in our courts, from
the singular nature of the claim, and
the strange story which it disclosed.
the plaintift who was captain of a ship
which traded principally with the west
indies, had married quite early with
every prospect of happiness.—his wife
was said to have been extremely beauti
ful, and no less lovely in her charac
ter.
afler living with her in the most un
interrupted harmony for five years,
during which time two daughters were
added to the family, he suddenly re
solved to resume his occupation, which
he had relinquished on his marriage,
and when ins youngest child was but
three weeks old, sailed once more for
the west indie*. his wife, who was
devotedly attached to him, sorrowed
deeply at his absence, and found ner
only comfort in the society of the chil
jdren and the hopes of his return. hut
month after month passed away and he
i came not, nor did any letters, those in
sufficient but welcome substitutes, ar
rive to cheer her solitude. months
{lengthened into years, yet no tidings
were received from the absent husband;
land after hoping against hope, the un
happy wife was compelled to believe
i that he had found a grave beneath the
weltering ocean.
her sorrow was deep and heartfelt,
but the evils of poverty were now add
ed to her afflictions, and the widow
found herself obliged to resort to some
employment in order to support her
children. her needle was the only re
source, and for ten years she labored
early and late for the miserable pit
tance which is ever grudgingly bestowed
on an humble seamstress.
a merchant in new york, in moder
ate but prosperous circumstances, ac-
i cidentallv became acquainted with her,
and pleased with her gentle manners
no less than her most extreme beauty,
he endeavored to improve their ac
quaintance with friendship.
after some months he offeicd his
hand and was accepted. as the wife
of a successful merchant, she soon
found herself in the enjoyment of com
forts and luxuries such as she had
never possessed. her ehildren became
his children, and received from him
every advantage which w’ealth and af
fection could procure.
fifteen years passed away; the
daughter married, and by their step
father were furnished with every com
fort requisite in their new avocation of
house-keepers. but they had hardly
quitted his roof when their mother was
taken ill. she died after a few days, and
from that time until the period of which
i speak, the widower resided with the
youngest daughter.
now* comes the strangest part of the
story. after an absence of thirty
years, during w’hich time no tidings,
had arrived from him the first husband
i returned as suddenly as he had depart
ed.
he had changed his sh ’w -t
{another name, and tl»«j v.<
that long period on the ocean, with
i only transient visits on shore, while
taking in or discharging cargoes, hav
ing been careful never to come nearer
j home than new orleans. why he had
acted in this unpardonable manner to
wards the family, no one could tell, and
he obstinately refused all explanation.
there were strange rumors of slave
trading and piracy afloat, but they
were only whispers of conjecture rather
i than truth.—whatever might have
i been his motives for his conduct, he
was certainly any thing but indifferent
i to his family concerns w hen he re
turned. he raved like a madman
j when informed of his wife’s second
marriage, and subsequent death, vow
ing vengeance upon his successor, and
j terrifying his daughters by the most
aw<ul threats, in case they refused to
1 acknowledge his claims. lie had re
turned wealthy, and one of the mean
reptiles of the law, who are always to
be found crawling about the halls oi
justice, advised him to bring a suit
against the second husband; assuring
him that he could recover heavy dam
ages. the absurdity of instituting a
claim for a wife whom death had re
leased from the jurisdiction ot earthly
i laws was so manifest, that it was at
i length agreed to by all parties to leave
the matter to be adjudged by five re
ferees.
it was upon a bright and beautiful
afternoon in spring, when we met to
hear this singular case. the sunlight
streamed through the dusty windows of
i the court room, and shed a halo around
the long grey locks and broad forehead
of the defendant—while the plaintiff’s
harsh features were thrown into still
bolder relief, by the same beam which
softened the placid countenance of the
adversary.
the plaintiff’s lawyer made a most
eloquent appeal for his client, and had
we not been informed about the matter,
i our hearts would have been melted by
his touching description of the return of
the desolate husband, and the agony
with which he now beheld his house
hold goods removed to consecrate a
stranger’s hearth. the celebrated
aaron burr was counsel for the defend
ant, and we anticipated from him a
j splendid display of oratory.
contrary to our expectations, how
ever, burr made no attempt to confute
his opponent’s oratory. he merely
opened a book of statutes, and pointing
with his thin finger to one of the pages,
desired the referees to read it, while
he retired for a moment, for the princi
pal i citnctv.
we had scarcely finished the section,
w’hich fully decided the matter in our
minds when burr re-entered with a tall
and elegant female leaning on his arm.
she was attired in a simple white dress,
wuh a wreath of ivy leaves encircling
her large straw bonnet, and a lace veil
j completely concealing her counte
nance. burr whispered a few words,
apparently encouraging her to ad
vance, and then gracefully raising her
veil,discovered to us a face of proud,
surpassing beauty. i recollect as well
as if it happened yesterday, how
simultaneously the murmur of admira
tion burst from the lips of all present.
ranting to the pbidttr, mr. barr
uked, in n cold, quiet tone—
‘do you know this udjr?’
answer.—'l do.’
barr.—‘will you swear to that v
ans.—‘l will! to the beat of ay
knowledge, end belief sbe is ay daugh
ter.’
burr.—‘can von swear to her identi
ty?’
an#.—*l can.’
burr, —‘what is her age?’
ans.—'she was 30 years on the ‘ioth
day of april.’
burr. —‘when did you last s**e her?’
ans.—‘at her own house, about a
fortnight since.*
burr. —‘when did you see her pre
vious to that meeting:
the plaintiff hesitated a long penae
ensued—the question was repeated,
and the answer at length was.
‘on the 14th day of may, 17
‘when she was just three weeks old,’
added burr. gentlemen,’ continued
he, turning to us, *1 have brought this
lady here as an important witness, and
such, i think, she is. the plaintiff's
counsel has pleaded eloquently in be
half of the bereaved husband, who es
caped the perils of the sea and returned
only to find his home desolate. but who
wili picture to you the lonely wife bend
ing over her daily toil, devoting her
best years to the drudgery of sordid
poverty, supported only by the hope ol
her husband’s return: who will paint
the slow progress of heart-sickcning,
the wasting anguish of hope deferred,
and finally, the overwhelming agony
which came upon her when her last
hope was extinguished, and she was
compelled to believe herself indeed a
widowr who can depict all this with
out awakening in your hearts the
warmest sympathy for the deserted wife
and the utterest scorn for the mean piti
ful wretch, who could thus trample on
the heart of her whom he had sworn to
love and cherish we need not in
quire into his motives for acting so
base a part. whetner it was love ol
gain or licentiousness, or selfish indiffer
ence, it matters not; he is too vile a
thing to he judged by such laws as
govern men. let us ask the witness—
she who now stands before us with the
frank, fearless brow of true-hearted
woman—let us ask which of the two has
been to her a father.’
turning to the lady, in a tone whose
sweetness was in strange contrast with
the scornful accent which had jusl
characterised his words, he besought
her to relate brietly the recollections ol
her early life.—a slight flush passed
over her proud and beautiful face as
she replied:
‘my first recollections are of a small,
ill-furnished apartment, which my sister
and myself shared with my mother.
she used to carry out every saturday
evening the work which had occupied
her during the week, and bring back
employment for the following one.
saving that wearisome visit to her em
ployers and her regular attendance al
church, she never left the house. she
often spoke of my father, and of the
anticipated return, but at length she
ceased to mention him, though l ob
served she used to weep more frequent
ly than ever. i then thought she wepl
because we were poor, for it sometimes
happened that our support was only a
bit of dry bread; and she was accus
tomed to see by the light of the chips
which she kindled to warm her famish
ing children, because she could uol
purchase a candle without depriving ui
of our morning meal. such was oui
povert y whou.jn.y mother contracted a
second marriage, and the change to us
was like a sudden entrance into para
dise. we found a home and father.
she paused.
‘would you excite my own child a
gainst me? cried the plaintiff as he
impatiently waived his hand for her to
be silent.
the eyes of the witness flashed fire
i as he spoke.
‘you are not my father,’ exclaimed
she vehemently. ‘what! call you my
fathei '—you who basely left your wile
to toil and your children to beggary
nevei! never! behold, there my la
ther,’ pointing to the agitated defend
ant, “there is the man who watched
over my infancy—who was the sharer
of my childish sports and the guardian
of my inexperienced youth. there is
the man claims my affection and shares
my home; there is my r father. for
yonder selfish wretch, i know him not.
the best years of his life have been
spent in lawless freedom from social
ties; let him seek elsewhere for the
companion of his decrepitude, nor dare
insult the ashes of my mother by claim
ing the duties of kindred from her de
serted children.’
she drew her veil hastily around her
as she spoke, and moved as if to with
draw.
‘gentlemeu,’said burr, ‘i have no
more to say. the words of the law
are expressed in the book before you;
the words of truth you have heard from
woman’s pure lips; it is for you to de
cide according to the requisition of na
ture and the decrees ot justice.’
i need not say that our decision was
in favor cf the defendant, and the plain
tiff went forth followed by the contempt
of every honorable person who was
present at the trial.
a woman with two husbands,
the following interesting narrative
is copied from a late knglish paper.
it is quite as romantic as anything that
can be found in the thousand tmsgin
ary works with which the country is
flooded, and the denouement far more
sensible and natural than novelists gen
erally arrive at:
eight years ago the daughter of
philip cornin, esq. ofvvelbec, mar
ried clandestinely the son of her other's
gardener, a fine looking young fellow,
named oakes. as is usual in such ca
ses, ellen and her husband were turned
out of doors, and told to go and beg
their bread if they could not get it any
other way. ellen was not then quite
sixteen years of age, but a girl of un
usual spirit and firmness. she there-,
fore induced her husband to go to lon
don, and they arrived almost friendless
in that metropolis.
after staying here eeieral weeks,,
they were enabled to do hut little.
ellen had procured some scholars
through the influence of a former j
school-mate, who was married and
settled but this little income would mt t
more than pay the rent of their own
ntm. young oakes, who wm for the
first time strangling with the world, al
most five up in despair.
finally he shipped as a band before the
mast, oo board of an east india trading
vessel, and not daring to take a formal
lease (flu wife, be wrote ber a note
the day that the ship tailed, advising
her to return to her parents, and declar
ing solemnly that necessity compelled
bim to the courae he had resolved 00.
he aaid that in three years he would
positively retorn, and hoped he should
then be io a condition to merit her love
and esteem.
poor ellen felt terribly this loss of
her husband; and from a feeling of re
sentment towards her father, who had
been the cause of the low, she deter
mined not to go home, but to continue
to support herself by teaching. in ta is
she was successful. in vain did her
father, who found out how matters stood
endeavor to persuade her to return.
she declared she would not receive a
penny of his bounty unless she received
it in company with her husband.
in eight months time she received
tidings of her husband's death. the
ship in which he sailed was wrecked,
and all on board except the second mate
and two seamen, perished. her father
tried to reclaim his child, but now she
was more resolutely prejudiced against
her father than ever. by her industrv,
skill, and attention, she had secured
the good graces of two noble families,
and with their patronage she was above
want.
on the 10th of december, 1843, mrs.
oakes was married to james gelston
yvestley, esq., a gentleman of large
landed estate in norfolk. she had no
intercourse with her family up to the
time of her second marriage, and even
after that event she received the visit
of her father and brothers coldly.
she has since lived very happily
with her second husband, by whom she
has had two children. on the 23d of
september, 1847, her husband returned
to london, and learning of her mar
riage, he wrote a letter announcing his
i return and his escape from the wreck
nearly eight years before. the feel
ings of mrs. westly can better be im
agined than described. with her eyes
i bathed in tears she banded the letter to
sir james, her husband. v ery *soon
this unhappy couple were on their way
to london, and the wife rushed to the
arms of her first love—but the feelings
of the mother finally prevailed. mr.
oakes was still in indifferent circum
stances, but yet he was far from wish
ing to influence his wife to abandon
her two children to illegitimacy. it
j was -therefore resolved that all three
should petition to the court for a di
vorce from oakes, and an act legitimi
sing the children of the second mar
riage.
sir james westly has procured mr.
oakes a government office in the cus
toms, and until the divorce is car
ried through, the lady will reside al
her father’s house in welbcc. the
i london dispatch says that an act parlia
j ment will have to be passed in order to
legitimate the children of this singulai
manage.

j a quaker’s letter to his
watchmaker.
i herewith send my pocket clock
which greatly slundeth in need of thy
friendly correction. the last tune he
was at thy friendly school, he was nc
ways reformed, nor in the least bene-
j fitte d thereby: for i perceive by the in
dex of his mind that he is a liar, and
the truth is not in hint; that bis motions
'are wavering and irregular; that hia
pulse is sometimes slow ,which betoken
i eth not au even temper; at other times
lit waxeth sluggish, notwithstanding i
frequently urge him; when he should
ihe on his duty, as thou knowest his
i unsual name denoteth, i will find him
i slumbering or sleeping—or. as the vani
ty of human reason phrase it, catch
him napping. examine him, therefore,
and prove him, i beseech thee,
thoroughly, that thou mayest, by being
well acquainted with his inward frame
and disposition, draw him from the er
ror of his ways, and show* him the path
wherein he should go. it grieves me
to think, and when 1 ponder thereon, i
am verily of opinion that his body is
i foul, and the whole mass is corrupted.
cleanse him, therefore, with thy charm
ing physic, from all pollution, that lie
may vibrate and circulate according to
the truth. i will place him a few days
under thy care, and pay for his board
'as thou requires! it. f entreat thee,
friend john, to demean thyself on this
occasion with right judgment, accord
ing to the gift which is in thee, and
prove thyself a superior workman. and
when thou layest thy correcting hands
on him, let it be without passion, lest
thou drive him to destruction. do thou
i regulate his motion for the time to
come, by »he motion of the light that
ruleth the day, and when thou findest
him convened from the error of his
ways, and more conformable to the a
hove mentioned rules, then do you send
i him home with a just bill of charges,
i drawn out by the spirit of moderation,
j and it shall be sent to thee in the root
of ail evil.
i remarkable trace of axtiquitv.
—the perfect skeleton of an indian
i woman was found last wednsday after-
i n n th e sa, id-bank excavation, ad
joining niagara river, immediately
back of major whitney’s new rest-j
dence. we understand that it rested
j in a sitting posture with its head facing
j the north, (true indian sts|e,) about
four feet below the surface. immedi
ately above grew a large hickory, two
feet in diameter, at least 200 years old,
whose huge roots encircled the skele-j
ton on every side. owing to the frost 1
in the sand, and the number of roots to
,b« removed, it was obtained with great j
difficulty. rumor says indian resell j
were found with it.—.vjngoro falla
iris.
at kempecy. worcestershire, boy
named arkill, fell off the a high
ladder, but be alighted on hi#feet. he
u p w »th a rebound which carried
him backwards, and he tumbled into a
deep well. he was given up for lost,
butwhs presently heard moving in tbe
wut r: he had clung to the rough walls,
ultimately got unheart bp either fall!

