ARGUMENT
Of Charles Sumner. Esq., against the. {Con
stitutionality of Separate. Colored Schools,
tn the case of Sarah C. Roberts vs. The
City of Boston. Before the Supreme Court
of Mass., Dec. 4, 1849.
[CONTINUED.]
Still further —and here I approach a
more technical view of the subject—
it is an admitted principle, that the re
gulations and bye-laws of municipal
corporations must be reasonable, or
they are inoperative and void. This
has been recognized by this court in
Commonwealth vs. Worcester, (4 Pick.
R. 462,) and in Vardine’s Case (6j
Pick. 187.) And in the City of Boston
vs. Jesse Shaw, (1 Met. 130,) it was
decided that a bye-law of the city ol
Boston, prescribing a particular form
of contribution towards the expenses of
making the common sewers, was void
for inequality and unreasonableness.
Assuming that this principle is appli
cable to the School Committee, their
regulations and by-laws must be rea
sonable. Their discretion .must be ex
ercised in a reasonable manner. And
this is not what the Committee or any
other body of men, may think reason
able, but what shall be reasonable in
the eye of the law. It must be legally
reasonable. It must be approved by
the reason of the law.
And here we are brought once more,
in another form, to the question of the
validity of the discrimination on ac
count of color, by the School Commit
tee of Boston. Is this legally reason
able? Is it reasonable, in the exercise
of their discre.ion, to separate the des
cendants of tha African race from the
white children, in consequence of their
descent merely? Passing over, now,
those principles of the Constitution,
and those provisions of the law, which
of themselves would decide the ques
tion constituting as they do the highest
reason, but which have been already
amply considered, look for a moment
at the Educational system of Massa
chusetts, and it will be seen that prac
tically no discrimination of color is
made by law in any part of it, A des
cendant of the African race may be
Governor of the Commonwealth, and
as such, with the advice and consent of
the Council, may select the Board of
Education. Aa Lieutenant Governor,
he may be, tx officio, a member of the
Board. He may be the Secretary of
the Board, with the duty imposed on
him by law, of seeing that ull children
in this Commonwealth, who depend up
on common schools for instruction, may
have the best education which those
schools can be made to impart. He
may be a member of any School Cdm
inittee, or it teacher in any public
school of the State. As a legal voter,
he can vote in the selection of any
School Committee.
Thus, in every department connect
ed with our Public Schools, throughout
the whole hierarchy of their govern
ment, from the very head of the sys
tem down to the humblest usher in the
humblest primary school, and to the
humblest voter, there is no distinction
of color known to Che law. It is when
we reach the last stage of all, the
children themselves, that the beautiful
character of the system is changed to
the deformity of Caete; as, in the pic
ture of the ancient poet, what was a
lovely woman above, terminated in a
vile, unsightly lish below. And all
this is done by the Committee, with
more than necromantic power, in the
exercise of their mere discretion.
It is dear that the Committee may
classify scholars, according to their
age and tel; for the obvious reasons
that these distinctions are inoffensive,
pod especially recognised as legal in
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—
the law relating to schools. (Revised
Statutes, c. 23, 63.) They may alsc
classify scholars according to theii
moral and intellectual qualifications,
because such a power is necessary tc
the government of schools. But the
Committee cannot assume, a priori,
and without individual examination,
that an entire race possess certain
moral or intellectual qualities, which
shall reader it proper to place them all
in a class by themselves. Such an ex
ercise pf the discretion with which the
CommijMn are intrusted, must be un
reasonable, and therefore illegal.
But it is said thatjtha Committee, in
thus classifying the children, have not
violated any principle of Equality, in
asmuch as they have provided a school
with competent instructors for the col
ored children, where they have equal
advantages of instruction with those
enjoyed by the white children. It is
said that in excluding the colored chil
dren from the Public Schools open to
white children, they furnish them an
equivalent. To this there are several
answers. shall touch upon them only
briefly, as the discussion, through
which we have now travelled, substan
tially covers the whole ground.
Ist. The separate school for colored
children is not one of the schools esta
blished by the law relating to Public
Schools. (Revised Statutes, chap. 23.)
It is not a Public School. As such, it
has no legal existence, find therefore
cannot be a legal equivalent. In addi
tion to what has already been said,
bearing on this head, I will call the at
tention to one other aspect of it. We
have already seen that it has been de
cided, that a town can execute its
power to form a School District, onlv
by a geographical division of its terri
tory—that there cannot be, what the
Court have called a personal limitation
of the District, and that certain indivi
duals cannot be selected and set off by
themselves into a District. (Perry vs.
Dover, 12 Pick. 213.) The admitted
effect of these decisions is to render a
separate school for colored children
illegal and impossible in towns that
have been divided into Districts. They
are so regarded in Salem, Nantucket,
New Bedford, and in other towns of
this Commonwealth. The careful opin
ion of a member of this Court, who is
not sitting iu this case, given while at
the bar, (Hon. Richard Fletcher,) and
extensively published, has been consi
dered as practically settling this point.
But there cannot be one law for the
country and one for Boston.- It is true
that Boston is not divided strictly into
geographical districts. In this respect
its position is anomalous. But if se
parate colored schools are illegal and
impossible in the country, they must be
illegal and impossible in Boston. It is
absurd to suppose that this city, by
failing to establish school districts, and
by regarding all its territory as a single
district, should be able legally to esta
blish a Caule school, which it otherwise
could not do. Boston cannot do indi
rectly what the other towns cannot do
directly.
This is the first answer to the sug
gestion of equivalents.
2d. The second is, that in point of
fact, it is not an equivalent. We have
already seen that it is the occasion of
inconveniences to the colored children
and their parents, to which they would
not be exposed,if they bad access to the
nearest public schools, besides indict
ing upon them the stigma of Caste.
Stilt further, and this consideration
cannot be neglected, the matters taught
in the two schools may be precisely
the same; hut a school, exclusively
devoted to one class, must differ essen
tially, in its spirit and character, from
that public school known to the law,
where all classes meet together in
equality. It is a mockery to call it an
equivalent.
3d. But there is yet another answer.
Admitting that it is an equivalent, still
the colored children cannot be com
pelled to take it. Their rights are
Equality before the law; nor can they
be called upon to renounce one jot of
this. They have an equal right with
white children to the general public
schools. A separate school, though
well endowed, would not secure to
them that precise Equality which they
would enjoy in the general public.
The Jews in Rome ate asnfined to a
particular district, called the Ghetto.
In Frankfort they are condemned to a
separate quarter, known as the Jewish
quarter. It is possible that tha accom
modations allotted to them are as good
as they would be able to occupy, if left
free to choose throughout Rome and
Frankfort; but this compulsory segre
gation from the mass of citizens is of
itself an inequality which we condemn
with eur whole souls. It is a vestige
of ancient intolerance directed against
a despised people. It is of the same
character with the separate schools in
Boston.
Thus much for the doctrine of equi
valents, as a substitute for equality-
In determining that the Committee
have no power to make a discrimina
tion of color or race, we are strength
ened by yet another consideration. I
the power exists in any caso, it mitaf
exist in many others. It cannot be res
trained to this alone. The Committee
may distribute all the children into
classes—merely according to .their dis
cretion. They may establish a separ
ate aahool for the Irish er Germans,
where each may nurse an exclusive
Spirit of nationality alien to ear institu
tions. They may separate Catholic*
from Protestants, or, pursuing their
discretion atill further, thev may separ
ate the different sects of Proteatants,
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1850.
and establish one school for Unitarians
another for Presbyterians, another foi
Baptists, and another for Methodists
They may establish a separate ecboo
for the rich, that the delicate taste o
this favored class may not be offends*:
by the humble garments of the poor
They may exclude the children of me
chanics from the Public Schools, anc
send them to separate schools by them
selves. All this, and much more, car
be done by the exercise of the high
handed power which can make a dis
crimination on account of color or
race. The grand fabric of our Public
Schools, the pride of Ma—achusetts,
where, at the feet of the teacher, inno
cent childhood should meet, unconsci
ous of all distinctions of birth—where
the Equality of the Constitution and of
Christianity should be inculcated by
constant precept and example—may be
converted into a heathen system ol
proscription and Caste. We may then
have many different schools, the repre
sentatives of as many different classes,
opinions and prejudices; but we shall
look in vain for the true Public School
of Massachusetts. Let it not be said
that there is little danger that any Com
mittee will exercise their discretion to
this extent. They must not be entrust
ed with the power. In this is the only
safety worthy of a free people.
TO BE CONTINUED.
From the Eighteenth Annual Report, of the Ma»-
•achu-ietla Anti-Slavery Society.
OUR AIM.
The lapse of Time and the progress
of Events have'but served to confirm
o-’r deliberate andotten recorded opin
ion that the only Exodus for the Slave
from his bondage,’ the only redemption
of ourselves from our guilty participa
tion in it, lies over the ruins of the
American State and the American
Church. Both the one and ihe other,
as this Report, however imperfectly
and feebly, has abundantly proved,
are in league with the Oppressor and
batten on the crushed bodies and man
gled souls of the Oppressed. The
corner-stone of the American Church,
as well as of the American State, is the
Slavery of the African race. We pro
test against both. We call upon all
men who love God and regard Man to
come out of both and tq unite in build
ing a holier Temple for the worship ol
the True God, a more sacred Capitol
for the service of a better Common
weal, than those structures which rest
on the hearts and are cemented with
the blood of Three>Million Slaves. We
are convinced more and more by the
experience of every day, that this
course is not only the Absolute Right,
but that it is the Highest Expediency.
We know that we have never so shak
-1 en the Church, we have never extorted
from her so large a share of the decent
homage of hypocrisy, or compelled her
to assume the mask of Anti-Slavery so
eagerly, as since we have shaken off
the dust of our feet as a testimony
against her and left her to be joined to
her idols. We know that we have
never made our voice reach to the ut
termost part of the Union so clearly,
our opinions and practices have never
been so distinctly repeated and pro
claimed by the universal press, by the
Legislatures and by the Congress ol
the United States, or our Philosophy
and Method been so well understood by
the General Mind of the Country, as
since we have adopted the principle ol
“NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLD
ERS.”
The work which the American Abo
litionists have undertaken is no light
one. They aim at nothing less than a
Reformation of the Religion and a
Revolution in the Government of the
Country. Tiiey seek to rescue Chris
tianity from the shame, and Republi
canism from the infamy, which Slave
ry has justly brought upon them-both.
They aspire to assist in the building up
of a Church and of a State such as the
Martyrs of Religion and Freedom in
all past time foresaw, when they joy
fully yielded themselved to the Stake
or to the Block. These hopes of the
yearning Ages have been hitherto
mournfully defeated. The experiment
of a Great Nation with popular Institu
tions, on these Western shores, has
signally failed. We are not the Model,
but the Warning of the Nations. And
this, owing to the disturbing element of
Slavery which our Fathers introduced
and we suffer to exist in our National
Economy. We see plainly that the
elimination of this abhorred ingredient
must precede any successful attempt
to erect a true Republic, enduring and
flourishing under the auspices of a
pure Religion. To do this is the ap
pointed and the chosen work of the
Abolitionists. In the of such
a Puupose, the Sectarian strifes, the
Partizan struggles, the Social compe
titions of the hour dwindle and disap
pear. Oars’is the only Movement of
this Age and Country that will impress
itself indelibly on the destines of all
coming Time. While the ephemeral
objects which agitate the contempora
ry mind must soon pass away and be
forgotten, the change which we eeek
to achieve will influence the condition
of mititons as long as the Earth sheH
endure. For such an End we may #ell
forego the temptations of a vulgar am
bition and cheerfully dedicate to its
Accomplishment the best powers of our
miuds, and the beet years of our lives.
For the Messing of our labors will
never cease from off the Earth, and
their Memory wiH endure forever!

It has been decided in New Orleans
that a colored man is competent to tes
tify in a court.
THIRTY-FIRST <'O\GRESS.
Washihgtoo Feb. 11
Senate.—The Vice President »tate<
the business before the Senate to be
the motion to receive a petition of citi
zens of Delaware and Maryland, ask
ing a peaceable dissolution of the Uni
on. Mr Chase having the floor, Ad
dressed the Senate in support of the
petition. He cited a case wherein a
similisr petition had been frequently
quoted in discussion. Kfcfeelievedthal
the Senate wpre boundkio receive every
petition no matter character,
and if it exhibited a mhrtnkcn- view ol
the powers of Congress, or the expe
diency of the measure prayed for, Con
gress should express its disapprobation
by subsequent action. The right ol
petition was a great and sacred one, to
be demanded, and, not a poor one to
be begged for.—He had no objection
to whatever action the Senate might
deem proper to give to this and similiar
petitions. He only asked that all he
received and treated alike.
Mr. Dayton said that the right of pe
tition was well settled. It was the rem
edy which a citizen or subject had to
ward the sovereign, and he had yet
to learn that it extended to the destruc
tion of the sovereign. It was limited
always to the redress of grievances.
He wns opposed to the reception oi
this petition, and would vote against it
because it asked the destruction of the
sovereign—the dissolution of the Uni
on—the violation of the Constitution
by those who had sworn to support it.
It asked what the Senate had neither
the right nor the power to do, and was
not respectful to the body to whom it
was addressed.
He agreed with all that Mr. Hale
had said the other day, relative to the
petition from North Carolina presented
by Mr. Mangum; there were wrongs,
as have been said on both sides, and
he was prepared, and her after always
should vote against rccei\ ing these ag
itating petitions, no matter where they
come from.
Mr. Cass honored the right of petit
ion as much as any man, but he did
not reckon it so high as the Seimtor
from Ohio. The people, thank God,
had a much more effectual remedy in
their hands than the right of petition—
they had the right o* action. The bal
lot box was worth a thousand rights of
petition, and could be exercised by all
the people. Was it to be contended
that Congress had no discretion as to
the reception of petitions? Would they
consider themselves bound to receive a
petition asking Congress to pass an act
declaring that there was •no God?
Surely not. The Constitution secured
the right to the people of petitioning
for the redress of grievances—would
any man contend this was such a pe
tition? There was no comparison be
tween this petition and that presented
by Mr. Mangum.
He alluded to the blessings with
which a kind Providence had crowned
our country, and said that the root of
all our evil was to be found in our fail
ure to appreciate and render to the
Creator the meed of gratitude, for all
that we have received. Dissolution
was but another name lor War—and
yet, here were the descendents of Penn
asking that it be granted. If the petition
was to be granted, our borders, where
ever they inay be, would be the scene
of one of the bloodiest Wars the world
ever saw—and for what? What was
to be gained by it? Who were to reap
anything but the bitterest fruits?
Mr. Webster regretted that this pe
tition had been presented, and he would
be surprized if it received any votes in
the Senate. Lest any one shonld, by
his vote, imply that Congress had any
power over the subject, he thought that
the petition, to be consistent with itself,
ought to have been preceded by a pre
amble somewhat as follows:
“Gentlemen, Members of Cougress:
Whereas, at the commencement of the
present session, you and each of you,
took a solemn oath upon the Holy E
vangelists of Almighty God, that you
would support the Constitution and the
Government; now, therefore, we ask
you to take immediate steps to break
up the Union, and destroy the Consti
tution as soon as you can.”
Mr. Hale was glad that Mr. Cass
had obtained new light, since he voted
the other day against receiving a peti
tion from Pensylvania,asking no action
by Congress, but simply requesting
Congress, in view of contemplated ac
tion upon the subject of slavery, on the
admission of new states, not to admit
such states into the Union. The Sen
ator had declared that North Carolina
was right in remonstrating against the
contemplated action by Congress, that
was all the petition which Mr. Cass
had voted against.
Mr. Cass replied that [the petition in
question contemplated adverse action
by Congress, in case ot the application
by a new state for admission without a
restriction upon the.question of slavery.
Mr. Hale said the petition intimated
no such septiments.
Mr. Wale# stated that he had exam
ined the petition and recognized the
name of no one of its 4 signer# as a citi
zen of Delaware.
Mr. Cooper eloquently addressed the
Senate adverse to the petition, and
hi support of the Union, alluding to the
evils which must follow its dissolution,
and declaring that he would vote against
all petitions from either north or south,
looking in the remotest degree to so
disastrous an event.
Mr. Clemens declared that the South
had never been guilty of aggressing—
the North alone was responsible for the
GOT) IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
(danger which menaced the Union
there are no dissolutionists in the Soutl
I —not a man who would dare rise ant
1 avow the treasonable sentiment.
i Mr. Chase said the question of re
ception had uot been met. Mr. Cast
and others had passed over the res
question, and stated the reasons fbi
which they would not grant the pray
er of the petition.—They mistook theii
own position. He contended that.the
reception of the petition was no jest a*
to the principle involved in the petitiou.
Mr. Seward wished the Senate and
the country distinctly to understand
that the question was not upon the
propriety of dissolving the Union, or
the power of Congress to dissolve it,
but simply whether the petition should
be received, and referred to a commit
tee, with instructions to report that the
Senate had neither the power nor the
disposition to entertain the question.
With this view he would vote to re
ceive the petition, which he had de
nounced as emanating front madmen—
that he had never seen and never ex
pected to see, the petition which he
would not recieve. It was no apology
with him for refusing to receive the
prayer of his fellow-being, that he had
no power to grant it.
Petitions from madmen were at least
harmless, and the easiest way to get
rid of them was to recieve them, and
dispose of them ns they deserved. No
other petitions tor a dissolution of the
Union would ever be sent here, if the
present one should be received and the
rebuke administered to it which was in
the heart and mouth of every man in
the Chamber. The Senate were not
above giving reasons even against a
dissolution of the Union— George
Washington had not been above it,
and why should the Senate?
The question being taken, the mo
tion to receive the petition was nega
tived yeas 3 nays 50—Messrs. Hale,
Chase and Seward voting in the affirm
ative.
The Senate proceeded to the con
sideration of the order of the day.
Mr. Berrien arose and addressed the
Senate on the subject of Slavery, ex
pressed his views of the magnitude and
difficulties of the subject, and conse
quent conviction of the crisis which
now exists in the affairs of the country.
The people of the South had at last
been awakened to a sense of their dan
ger; and a feeling has been awakened
which could no longer be trifled with.
He uttered no menaces, and trusted
the North would heed the voice of
calm, dispassionate warning which he
b«w raised. The oounlry had passed
through many crises, but none so
fraught with danger as the present;
and, unless better counsels prevail than
hitherto, the direct consequences will
ensue.
He trusted that a better feeling would
prevail. This hope amounted almost
to conviction, that the storm would lull,
and peace and happiness would again
be diffused throughout ail our borders.
After paying a most beautiful tribute to
Mr. Clay, wishing that he might long
live to participate in the blessing ot uni
ty and peace, and that when he should
be called to leave off the frail gar
ment which he has so gracefully worn,
his closing eyes might rest on a free,
united, and happy republic—
Mr. Berrien proceeded with an ar
gument upon the immediate question of
legislation, for the territories, and
against the establishment of a princi
ple which should forbid, in all future
time, the flag of the Uuion to float over
any State ;or territory where slavery
may exist, except in those States where
that institution now exists. The South
called upon Congress not to legislate
upon the question of slavery. They
had not asked legislative aid: it was
legislative interference which they de
precated. They called upon Congress
to exercise whatever power it had, to
organize governments for the Territo
ries, and abstain from any aefion upou
the domestic institution of slavery.—
They called upon Congress to leave
the slavery question to the great Con
stitutional arbiter between the two sec
tions. That was all tbe South asked.
What then, he would appeal to the
Senator from Kentucky, (Mr. Clay)
what had the South to yield? What
was it that they had to yield? Was it
their constitutional right to‘ invoke the
decision of the highest tribunal in the
Union, that they were called upon 1 to
give up? Surely such a demand could
never be entertained. He then pro
ceeded to examine more specifically
the question of the power of Congress
to take any action upon the question
of slavery in the new territories, argu
ing against the existence of any such
power.
At three o'clock, Mr. Berrien gave
way to a motion that the further con
sideration of the subject be postponed
until to-morrow, which was agreed to.
Mr. King submitted a resolution call
ing upon the Secetary of State for any
papers in his department relative to
the conduct of Captain David Cook,
of the British bark Sarah, in rescuing
the passengers, officers and crew of
the Caleb Qrimshaw, which was a
dopted.
After the transaction of additional
routine business, and an Executive ses
sion the Senate adjourned.
house or RsmasaMTATivEs.
A motion was J pending from last
week to lay on the table a petition pre
sented by Mr. CromrMl. from citizens
of Ohio, asking Congress to adopt
measures for the settlement of interna
tional difficulties by Arbitration and a
Congress of Nations,
The question wastaken, and decided
in the negative —yeas 65, nap 100.
Mr. Thompson of Miss, desiring to
debate the petition, the question goes
over.
The House then went into Committee
of the Whole on the state ofthe Union,
on resolution relative to collection ol
customs.
The amendments were considered.
Mr. Winthrop of Mass, took occa
sion to present a memorial from 100
importing merchants of Boston, without
distinction of party, remonstrating
against the Treasury Circular, and
requesting; that the expenses of weigh
ing, gu aging and measuring be paid by
that class, and expressing regret that
the revenue cutters have been called
out of service. He believed that not
less than twenty millions of imports
were received at Boston, on which a
duty of $5,000,000 was paid.—The
Secretary issued the circular only on
compulsion, and would relieve the
merchants whenever he bad an oppor
tunity.
Mr. Vinton, of Ohio, offered an
amendment to the resolution of the
Senate, the same as that offered and
adopted as a substitute by the Com
mittee of Ways and Means on Friday,
excluding the expenses of collecting
revenue in California and Oregon from
the appropriation proposed, suspending
laws limiting compensation to officers
and expenses there until further action
of Copgress.
After five minutes’ remarks made in
explanation on one side contending
that appropriations for California and
Oregon should be specific, and that the
amendment did not allow one cent
more than was asked by the Secretary
of the Treasury, Mr. Vinton’s amend
ment was lost by a tie vote.
Various amendments were offered,
and remarks predicated on them.
Mr. Thurston had conversed with
the Representatives from California,
and they took the broadest ground
against giving the least discretion to
the Secretary on that section. He was
told that the Collector at San Francis
co was giving four dollars a day more
to assistance than was allowed at the
North, and that Congress will be called
upon to make appropriation for special
services. It is a fact, that the expense
of living in San Francisco was $lO a
day; and unless Congress make ade
quate provision, how can it be expected
that the necessary officers can be em
ployed? The port of Asteria has long
been without a Collector, and the gov
ernment was in consequence cheated
out of hundreds and thousands by the
Hudson Bay Company bringing in tfieir
cattle and goods without paying duties.
Whatever course the committee may
adopt, let them not include any portion
of the Pacific coast. He was in favor
of retrenchment, but not such as would
cause the Government to lose in the
collection of duties.
Mr. Green offered a preamble, in
the nature of a censure on the Secre
tary of the Treasury for spending too
much money, and accused him of not
carrying out the spirit of the act of
March, 1849.
The committee rose and reported the
following as agreed to, in lieu of the
Senate’s resolution: “That instead of
the sum appropriated for expenses for
collecting the revenue, in act, 3d
March, 1849, a sum equal to one-half
of that expended in collecting revenue
for the fiscal year, ending June 30,
1848, exclusive of expenses for storage,
cartage, drayage and labor in that
year, be appropriated for the remain
ing halt of the year, ending June,
1850, together with such sums in ad
dition, as may be received for cartage,
drayage, labor and storage, exclusive
of expenses incurred in California and
Oregon; and provided that ail laws
limiting the compensation of officers,
and other expenses shall be suspended
in Califoania and Oregon until further
action of Congress.”
Mr. Bayly moved to strike out the
exclusion of California and Oregon.
Motion disagreed by one majority.
The question was taken on agreeing
to amendment in committee of the
whole—99 to 103— party vote.
The queston was now taken on
agreeing to the resolution as it came
from the Senate.
Mr. Preston King moved to recon
sider the vote.
The question was ordered—pending
which the House adjourned.
MASON*# FUGITIVE SLAVE BILL.
Enclosed you have an office copy of
Senator M a son’s intended amendments
to the Judiciary Committee’s Bill for
catching slaves while they are remov
ing from the Slave States without per
mission of their masters, to avoid
Eternal Servitude.
Mr.Masou,who is a high-minded Vir
ginian,would authorize each ol the 40
U.S.District Judges(in bis District) to
create three commissioners in each
County, to determine complaints and
authorize claimants to carry back the
slaves claimed. In short, be would
provide nearly 4,000 additional judges
of slave cases, besides a large batch
in the Territories.
2 Commands United States Sher
iffs (Marshals) and their deputies to
obey the 4,000 Judges, to execute
their process, and to summon the aid of
the neighbors to help to catch and
keep the escaping Slaves, or the whole
force of the County if wanted; all good
citizen* being also commanded to a*,
sist. ififi -it fria- so*
3 Permits Slave-proprietors or
their agents to chase, catch, and re-
JOHN DICK, Primtkr.
WHOLE NO.; 118
claim their Slaves who shall have fled
to other States; to seize them with or
without warrant; to carry them before
a United States Court, or before one
of the 4,(KM) Judge*, who is “to hear
and determine the case of such claim
ants in a summary manner In no
trial or hearing shall the testimony ot
such alleged fugitive be admited in ev
idence. Affidavits of claimants, duly
attested, shall entitle them to carry off'
their alleged Slaves, using all necea
i sary force and restraint. Juries of the
neighborhood, there are to be none.
§4 Orders any one obstructing the
seizure of all alleged “fugitives” from
i slavery,{who would not ruu from it?]
or who may harbor or conceal them, to
be fined not over $5OO, sent to jail for
not more than half a year, and also
compelled to pay $l,OOO for civil dam
ages to the slave claimant. The pre
sent enormous fees allowed in the Fed
eral Courts are|to be extended to tbi
slave-catching business. Each Com
missioner, or Slave Judge, is to get a
$lO fee, if he thinks lie is justified in
delivering up the slave brought before
him; but only $5 if he fears that there
is not proof enough. Mr. Mason thus
makes it his interest to be content with
as little of proof as he possibly can.
The constable or he who may catch
the slave, also gets a $5 fee, and such
other fees nre allowed as some one of
the 4,000 new Judges may think fit to
order. The worthy Senator wishes bis
bill to go into operation on the Ist ol
June next.
1 perceive that Messrs. Pihenix and
Underhill supported Giddings’s re
solutions, embracing the principle in
volved in Root’s, on the same day; and
it is understood that the New-York
Delegation will go firmly and unitedy
with the country on the great question
of Free Territory.
Affrican Colonization. -There are
two aspects under which the Colonisa
tion cause may be regarded—first, as
an opiate for slaveholders’ consciences,
by confirming the prejudice that blsck
and white men cannot live under the
same government in a state of legal
equality—that general Enrancipation
can only be safely attempted on condi
tion of the total expatriation of the
black race from this country. Hat
sort or phase of Colonization wo de
cidedly object to. But the Coloniza
tion from choice of a great number of
our emancipated blacks on the soil
from which their forefathers were tom
by the man-stealer, with a view to the
introduction of Christianity and the
Useful Arts there, and the closing of
the entire eoet ©f Africa against the
ravages of the slave-trade— that aspect
of Colonization we heartily concur and
delight in. The following resolutions
just adopted by the Legislature of Indi
ana savor of the right spirit:
Ji Joint Resolution in relation to the
Slave Trade.
Whereas, The policy of suppressing
the “African Slave Trade” by au
armed blockade has, upon the whole,
praved an entire failure, said trade be
ing as vigorous now as it was before the
blockade was attempted; And, where
as, it is likely that England will soon
make overtures to our General Gov
ernment demanding a release from all
treaty stipulation whereby she is ob
liged to keep her expensive fleet on
the African coast, tor the suppression
of the Slave trade; And, whereas, both
the Government of the United States
and England are convinced that some
other plan must he adopted to check
that traffic; And whereas the settle
ment of the African coast with colonies
of civilized colored men is the cheapest
and best plan of suppressing said
traffic, being likewise calculated to
further the work of colonizing oar
people of color, which plan of suppres
sing the tade is true American policy;
Therefore,
Be it Resolved by the General As
sembly of the State of Indiana, That our
Senator and Representatives in Con
gress be, and they are hereby request
ed, in the name of the State of Indiana,
to call for a change of national policy
on the subject of the “African Slave
Trade,” and that they require a settle
ment of the Coast of Africa with colored
men from tHe United States, and pro
cure such changes in our relations with
England as will permit us to transport
colored men from this country to Afri
ca, with whom to effect said settlement.
GEORGE CARR,
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
JAMES H. LANE, President of the
Senate.
Approved Jan unary 16, 1850.
Joseph A. Right.
Things in General. Haynau at
Home. The following, from a cotem
porary print, exhibits the progress of
refinement and humanity among the
chivairic, intelligent and highly culti
vated citizens of South Carolina, where
it appears that a man is to be literally
cut to pieces, probably for defending
his own rights. It were better to be
committed even to the tender mercies
of the semibarbarians of Missouri.
“Cowards are cruel,” &c:—
Two negroes were convicted lest
week, at Newberiy, S C., for an as
sault and battery on two white men,
and one sentenced to receive five hun
dred lashes: the other to be hung an
the first day of March next.
.5 cat -ffua
Mr. Clay’s Compromise.—Resolu
tions have been introduced in the Ma
ryland Legislature, endorsing the plan
proposed by Mr. Clay 4 for disposing of
the Slavery question.
From the Liberator.
Slavery in America.
A public meeting was held in the Stock
Exchange Hall, Albion street, Leeda, Eng*
land, on Tuesday evening, January 15th, for
the purpose of hearing an address on the
subject of American slavery, by William W.
Brown, a man of color, and a fugitive from
slavery. The attendance was good, and but
for the inclemency of the evening, there is
no doubt the hall would have been crowded.
Amongst the gentlemen present on the
occasion, were noticed on the platform Al
derman John Wilson, Rev. Thomas Scales,
Rev. C. Wicksteed, Rev. A. M. Stalker,
Rev. R. Brewer, Mr. Councillor Town, Ed
win Baines, Esq., Thoe. Hovey, Esq., Jas.
Kitson, Esq., Ac., iic.
Tbe Rev. C- Wicksteed expressed his re
gret that Robert Jowiti, Esq., who was to
have taken the chair, could not attend— a cir
cumstance that Mr. Jowiti regretted as much
as the meeting would. In his absence, Al
derman J. Wilson (a Friend) was called to
tbe chair.
The Chairman expressed his regret at the
absence or their much esteemed friend and
fellow townsman, Robert Jowilt, who was
one of the oldest and most zealous anti-sla
very advocates in the town. (Hear, hear.)
With the object of the meeting he had entire
sympathy, and he did not think that tbe ques
tion of slavery, as it existed in America,
could be too frequently or too prominently
brought before them; and he trusted that the
statements to he made to the meeting that
evening would be such as to induce all pres
ent to promote tbe extinction of such an evil
m a land which prided itself in the profession
of so much liberty and freedom. (Applause.)
With these observations, he would intro
duce to them William Wells Brown.
(Applause.)
Mr. Brown, who spoke with much effect,
and in a style of great perspicuity, said the
subject he had come there to lay before them
was one he had no need to say should com
mand itself to the hearts of the English peo
ple, as it was one in reference to which they
had shown by their past acts that it not only
commended itself, but that they daly appre
ciated it. He occupied that evening a
strange position, or it might seem so to some,
He was there from the United States of Ame
rica, the country of hfs nativity. People
were so accustomed to speak highly of the
institutions under which they had been bred
and reared, that it might seem strange that
one from the boasted land of liberty, one fiotn
‘the land of the free and the home of the
brave,’ should arraign tbe government of thal
people before the British public. (Hear,
hear.) He came there not for the purpose
of misrepresenting, of praising, or of speak
ing against the government of America bui
he came there as the representative of the
three millions of slaves of America, and ol
the anti-slaveiy movement of that country.—
So much had boen said in favor of America
by Americans who had visited this country,
that it only seemed proper that some one
should speak in favor of the slave, who could
not, and who would not put confidence in the
slaveholder or Ins apologist who might visil
England he chose rather to send his own
representative, one who had himself wore
the chain of slavery. He should therefore
speak of slavery as he had seen it, and as he
knew it to exist in the alaveholding Slates 01
America. Mr. Brown (says the Leeds Mer
cury) concluded a most thrilling and elo
quent address, amidst loud and lepeatec
plaudits.
Edward Baines, Esq., rose at the call oi
the Chairman, to propose a resolution. He
said the meeting would be glad of an oppor
tunity, not only of expressing their syrnpa
thy with the gentleman who bad addressed
them, and who had given them so interesting
and instructive a narrative, but also of stating
to the proud slaveholders of America thal
the good man, whom they called a chattel,
the people of England were not ashamed tc
own as a lellow-nian, as a Christian and s
brother. (Hear, hear, and applause.) He
alluded to the almost hopeless position of the
anti-slavery movement in America, when, bui
si few years ago, George Thompson, Esq.,
tbe now M. P. for Tower Hamlets, raised his
eloquent voice against it in that country, anc
waa obliged to flee for his life, observing thal
anch had been the progress of the anti-slavery
movement since that ume, that although peti
tions lor the abolition of slavery were prohi
bited by law from being presented to eiihei
House of Parliament, now the House ol
Congress had fur three weeks been brought
to a dead lock by the evenly balanced slate ol
patties on this very question. The plea that
the slaves, if liberated, might some morning
rise up and cut the throats of their masters,
he regarded as utterly without foundation.—
The masters had the army, knowledge, edu
cation, and everything on their side, which
could make a small minority submit to the
rule of a majority. The whole number ol
•laves did not exceed three millions out of a
population of twenty millions; whilst in the
West Indies we had only 30,000 whites to a
black slave population of 800,000; and yei
not a single outrage had been committed when
tbe whole of these slaves were emancipated.
(Hear, hear.) In conclusion, he called upon
the meeting to give expression to their opin
ion by passing the lollowing resolution
Resolved, That this meeting has listened
with deep interest and lively sympathy to the
statements of Mr. Brown, which increase
their sense of the dreadful injustice and cru
elty of slavery as it exists in the United
States that the meeting rejoices at the rapid
advance of the anti-slavery cause in that
country, where religion and humanity are
rousing a large part of the enlightened jMipu
lation, and of their representatives in Con
gress, to vindicate the rights of their fellow
men held in bondage and thal it looks for
ward with earnest hope to the period when
the freemen of America shall wipe out the
foul biot on their escutcheon, and thus take
the greatest step in the entire suppression ol
slavery through the world.’
The Rev. Thomas Scales very cordially
seconded the resolution, observing that his
best energies had been devoted iu this great
and glorious cause. They might think they
had done much in emancipating the slaves in
their own colonies, but they ought not to re
gard their work as done tiU slavery itself
should cease to exist thioughout the wide
world. (Hear, hear.) He hoped the influ
ence of England would be felt in America,
and convince their brethren on the other side
of the Atlantic that, however much they
might admire ihem in other matters, they
could not hut regard them as dishonored and
degraded so long as slavery existed in any
part of the United States. (Applause.)
The resolution was carried amidst loud
applause.
The Rev. Charles Wicksteed stated that
this wts not the first time he had met their
friend Mr. Brown, for he had met him iw i
very splendid place and excellent society, at
the Peace Congress lately held at Paris,
where he had seen him shake hands with
distinguished men of every sect and nation.
Mr. Brown acknowledged the vote taken
on tbe resolution, and after singing two anti
slavery melodies, tbs business of the meet
ing wss brought to a close by a vote of thanks
to ths Chairman.
A Scene in the Senate.
Last Tuesday in the Senate, during ibo
morning hour, Mr. Hale presented the pe
tition of sevem) hundred women of Dover,
N.JH. protesting against the extension of sla
ve™ or admission of any more slave States.
Ths question of reception was raised, but
the usual motion lo lay on the table failed.
On this motion, Mr. Douglas took the ground
that, as the Senate bad decided to receive
petitioos from the South protesting against
action, hs should bow vote to tpceive this po
sition from the North, which ahw protested
against action. There should be OTWXulefor
both sections.
Mr. Butler of South Carolina tried bishop
at patting down Mr. Hale, with what aucceae
the following report will show:
Mr. Butter. Mr. Preaident, I have peti
tion* to offer, resolutions, andfother matters,
really requiring immediate action; otherwise
there would be no necessity for acting upon
them at all. Yet, sir, every morning a gen
tlemen who is in the minority is monopoli
zing the whole time of the Senate by peti
tions,such as this, breeding mischief; and this
without rebuke, and almost with the counte
nance o' those who vote for these resolutions.
Can this be tolerated, that the time of this
Senate and Legislature of the United States
shall be appropriated by mischievous incen
diaries who claim the right to introduce icso
lutions,memorials,and propositions of this kind
to the Senate? Why, sir, I have business
now that I think ought to engage the atten
tion of the Senate, but I cannot bring it be
fore them, for every morning that gentlemen
takes up the whole time. He has the whole
Senate to himself. A mere minority comes
here, and makes all this mischief, and stands
unrebuked, so far as I can see,by the Senate.
I know, sir, this is a part of his existence.
I know that, in what I am now saying, I am
Siving him the food upon which he cui feed.
[e lives upon mischief. It is the very food
that sustains him. 1 know lam not rebuk
ing him. Sir, it is intolerable, that a miser
able minority, a mischievous incendiary, a
madman, if you choose to call him so, should
come here and interfere with the rights of
other men upon this floor.
[Amidst cries of Order! Order! he sat down
inflamed with passion]
Mr. Hale. I have a word to say, sir, to the
Senator from South Carolina, [Mr. Butler.]
He says that 1 live upon mischief, and that he
gives me the food I live on. If that be the
case, he is responsible for it, and not myself.
But to be more serious; he is pleased to de
nounce me as a miserable minority, and com
plains of my trespassing upon the privileges
of the Senate. I leave that questiou to be
decided by tbe community, who it is that tres
passes upon the time of the Senate. Sit, he
will have to talk longer, and denounce more,
before he ean convince me that this has been
my prerogative.
I have “taken up the whole time of the
Senate! 1 Have 1, sir? For two mornings,
and ouly two, have I presented.anything of
of this kind since the year 1850 commenced;
one of them was the othet day, and the other
was this morning. So far was I from saying
anything to take up your time, that I confined
myself simply to stating what the nature of
the petitions was. The talk did not come
from the “miserable minority,” but from a
majority. I will not apply any adjective to
them, but I have enough at hand, that I could
use if I chose. The mischief comes from a
majority, that seeks to tread down the minor
ity —that desires to make.them more miserable
than they really are. “Miserable” as we are
I think the Senator will find out that our pow
er of speech is not exhausted; and while we
may exercise it within the privileges of the
Constitution, he will find that it will be exer
cised at any and at all hazards.
We are not to be frightened ojt of our
rights upon this floor by denunciation, or even
by the threat of danger personal to ourselves.
Small and few as we are, we are not misera
ble cowards that can be frightened from the
assertion or the maintenance of our rights.
New Hampshire blood, coursing in New
Hampshire veins, from the commencement of
this Government, in the Senate, in the House
of Representativ< ;s, and upon the field ofbatlle
has attested her rights; and she has sons that
will still vindicate those rights against all her
foes, come when they will, how they will, and
where they they will. She will not be intimi
dated by threats, or any language of the sort.
National Era.
From the National Era.
Intimidation.
lie have never known the system of inti
midation pushed to such an extreme in our
National Councils as at present. Every de
mand is a threat—every speaker from the
Sou’e seems to think himself called upon to
crack his whip about the ears of Northern
members, wbo are treated like inferiors, not
equals. No matter what the language or
sentiments of resolutions presented from the
slave States, they are received with profound
deference,and ordered to be printed. Vermont,
presuming, as a sister State upon a similar
reception, is repelled with words of soorn, and,
though one month ago her resolutions were
presented, to this hour the Senate has not
made up its mind whether it will print them
or not And Northern Senators submit!
Some people of Wilmington, North Caro
lina, get together, pass resolutions denouncing
the fanaticism of the North, in favoj of Slave
ry, and threatening the Union. Mr. Mangum
takes occasion to submit them to the Senate,
accompanying them with a bitter assault on
the free States, and threatening war, bloody
war, should they persist in their aggressions.
The Senate, overawed, graciously receives
the papers, treating them with marked respect.
But let a Northern Senator present a petition
against the extension of Slavery, and thefSen
ate refuses even to entertain the question of
its reception I That body is cowed by the
menaces of the slaveholders.
“We have but to show our teeth,” said
Mr. Holmes of the South Carolina, the other
day, “and the North is frightened.” Great
was the exultation among Southern members
on the sth, in the House, wheu so many
Northern men voted to lay Boot’s resolution
on the table. Jt was a triumph they had not
anticipated quite so soon, not dreaming that
their threats could accomplish so much all at
once.
The Northern People, they presume, are
like their Representatives. They regard them
as shopkeepers, tame-spirited, eaten up with
the love of gain. The Richmond Whig, of
Virginia, commenting upon some belligerent
remarks in the North American of Philadel
phia, sneers at the graodiloquent talk of its
editors, and coolly tells them that they “had
better stick to the counter.”
Twice in Congress have menaces of bloody
conflict within the Capitol been thrown out
by fllaveholding members. In the Senate.
Mr. Davis of Mississippi thought the strug
gle, if Northern men persisted in their ag
gressions, should commence “here and now,’,
between the Representatives of the two sec
tions. Mr. Clingman, in the House, thought
if the worst came to the worst, not a quorum
wou'd be left in the Halls of Congress to do
business.
While these brutal threats are common in
both Houses, craven-spirited members from
the North are writing home letters calculated
to create a panic among their constituents.
Mr. Buchanan, a sort of lobby member,
never feared before for the Union: he does
now—melancholy are bis forebodings. Gen
eral Caaa, too, is shaken with alarm; and,
convervng with one of the Indiana members,
wbo has been taken under the special care of
the South, he learns that in the event of a die
solution of the Union, the State of Indites
will go with the South Letter-writers do
their share to get up a Northern panic; end
the newspapers in Northern cities give curren
cy to all kinds of fearful rumois. The South
ern men are determined, they say, to dissolve
the Union, any bow—they have marked off
several Confederacies already—the seat of
Government for the great alaveholdiog con
federacy is determined upon—no matter what
the North does now, Disunion moat come.
One leuer-writer goes so far aa to aay that,
if neceasaary, six SoutherniSenatora are pre
pared to vacate their aeats, to let the Wtlmot
Proviso paea, so that the South may have a
casus btlU —and the Ntw York Tnhfn* gives
countenance to the felly!
WiU the People of the free States permit
themselves to be imposed on by this trans
parent trickery 1 Or, admit that all these ex
hibitions of Southern wrath sad determination
are to be taken in earnest—are they prepared
to succumb, and excuse their Representatives
for abandoning the Ordinance of 18171 If,
•thdcr jnlMiMfctioa, they now give ap free
territory to Slavery, of what degradation are
they incapable? What exactions will they
not suffer, what burdens not bear 1 there
anything more that slaveholders can ask, ex
cept the privilege of setting up Slavery with
in the boundaries of /re* States If prepared
to do and suffer all the slave Power demands,
we hope they will say so, in some authentic
way, so as to enable Congress to ootne to a
speedy settlement of the controversy- Let
them meet together is Conventions in the
seven! States, and pass some such resolutions
as the following:
That, as slaveholders will tolente no
Union in which their claims to supreme power
is not acknowledged, therefore, we cheerfully
assent to this claim, now sod forever, provid
ed they allow us, without molestation, to de
vote ourselves to the plough, the loom, .and
the anvil.
If this do not suit tehm. and if they really
do cherish a purpose to maintain the rights of
the majority, to keep free territory free and
secure the ascendsncyof the Principle of Free
dom in the Federal Government, we submit
whether they ought not to hold a Maas Con
vention of all the friends of Liberty through
out the country, on the 4th day of July next,
or earlier, at some central point, when and
where they may take into consideration the
proceedings of the Convention of the Friends
of Slavery, to be held at Nashville in June
next.
THE NORTH STAR.
Rochester, February 22,1850.
Th* North Star ip sometimes sent to friends
wbo do not take the paper, in the hope that they
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptions and
donations for tha same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Dougi.ass, Rochester,
N. Y.
{^Wanted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Present Aspect of Anti-Slavery Affairs
at Washington.
It is deeply painful and mortifying to ob
serve.that the cry ot Disunion,” raised by
the South, has already so far accomplished
its purpose, as to alarm the members of Con
gress into a retrograde movement on the sub
i ject of slavery. It strikes us, that there is
either a subtle defect in the very organization
of Northern men, or a marked superiority in
the composition of Southern men for in all
controversies between the two, the latter
have come off victorious. A most humiliat
ing illustration of this has been all along
1 presented in the proceedings of the present
Congress. Northern men have shown, in
their conduct, that they have inherited the
blood, without the spirit of their ancestors
r Phrenologists would say, (judging of North
ern paleness, induced by Southern bluster,)
that the organs of caution and acquisitive
ness had been cultivated at the expense of the
oigans of firmness and destructiveness. The
f poor Northern Whigs and Democrats, in
Congress, have been so completely overawed
by the haughty woman-doggers of the South,
that they have recently voted twice against
the principle ot the Wilmot Proviso; and in
one case, they even voted against the very
words of the Declaration of Independence.
This occurred in the House; while in the
Senate of the United States, a scene has
lately transpired, which, if possible, exceeds
in infamy and disgrace the shocking develop
ments of aposiacy in the House.
Never has the Right of Petition been more
ruthlessly assailed, nor more wantonly tram
pled on, than it was in the Senate a few
days since. A petition, clothed in respectful
language, asking for a peaceful dissolution
of the Union, was virtually spurned from the
Chamber by our lordly seoatora, and not even
permitted the ordinary privilege of reference
to a Committee. Out of all the liberty-loving
Hungarian-welcoming and despot-despising
members pf that body, only THREE—Sew
ard, Hale, and Chase, were found ready tc
vindicate the sacred right of petition—the
poor privilege of prayer. The American
Senate in its action on this question, has set
an example of usurpation which deserves the
sternest rebuke. The members pf that body
are elected by the people, to legislate for the
country; and for the performance of this duty
they receive a suitable emolument. We pre
sume that it never entered the minds of the
fiaroera pf the Constitution, that the Senate
of the United States should have the ppwpi
of determining, for the people, for what they
shall or shall not petition. The assumption
of this power, on the part of the Senate, ii
an invasion of the rights of the people, sc
flagrant and so dangerous, that the whole
land should reverberate with indignant pre
tests against it. Upon the reasoning adopted
by the Senate, a petition on almost any 01
every subject, might be rejected, withoul
reference or consideration. These legislator!
should be*taught that they are not elected to
tell the people what they want, but to give
them what they ask; or, at least, to givt
them reasons for not granting what they ask.
Rut why should we attempt to define the
rights of the people, or the limits ot the
Senate’s power Such an effort implies, on
our part, a belief, that the people of this
country entertain an honest lore of liberty
Slid a sincere detestation of slavery, and that
they only need to have the evil exposed, and
the wrong pointed out, to adopt spcfi mea
sures as are necessary to remedy the evil,
and to redress the wrong. It would be the
veriest affectation in us to indicate any such
belief. A knowledge of the state of the
public mind, and of tbe public conscience,
leaves no alternative or conclusion for the
judgment to rest upon, but the utter hollow
ness and hypoerisy of the nation, in its pro
fessions of attachment to Liberty. We are
laughed to scorn by our own mocking spirit,
when we speak on this subject, as though the
people only needed light! We opoe cher
ished that amiable delusion. It has now
vanished. Nothing short of the scorpion
lash of mingled soern, contempt and ridicule,
seems capable of rousing in the masses, any
thing like sensibility ot eelf-rsepeet.
We have been both surprised and shocked
to find to little indignation and asloojshmpot
provoked by tbe insulting and high-banded
violation of the Constitution, on the part of
the Senate, in its recent outrage on the Right
of Petition; not have we been leap aston
ished to find so little of honest rebuke admin
istered, by the Northern press, to the miser
able Northern apostates, who meanly ate
their words, tamed their beck* upon tbeif
professions, hewed their ftilfff knees to the
dark spirit of slavery, tnd voted with the
slaveholders of the Sooth egsiost the very
principles which they were sent to Congress
to protect asd to vindicate. Vsrfly, Slavery
has wroogfat an evil work In the land! It
has not merely unmanned and brutalised the
slave; hot k has also, poisoned the life-blood
of Americas Liberty, and bumbled the pride
and spirit of the North into the very dost
r. d.
Editorial Items.
Tub Editor of tbs Anti-Slavery Standard
seems to confess his inability to understand
how an anti-slavery fair £iay prove a moral
as well as a financial failure.*' This is la
mentable. We can, perhaps, help him a
little in this natter, by staling the proposition
in a more logical form than that originally
published in the North Star. Thai measure
which fails to produce a good moral effect, fails
morally; and, ergo, is a moral failure. —r. n.
We are sorry to observe that the receipts
of the Standard, from its subscribers, from
the first of January to the first of February,
amounted only to one hundred and seventeen
dollars—a sum wholly inadequate to its sup
port. —F. D.
The article which refers to the action of
the Legislature of Indiana, on the subject of
Colonization, should have been accredited to
the New York Tribune. It is a great pity
that the Tribune should, just at this time,
feel called upop to favor, even in the most
qualified manner, the unhallowed scheme of
colonization. If any one thing awakens in
our inmost soul a detestation more intense
and bitter than another, it is the idea that it
is necessary to remove the colored man from
this land, in older to effect his elevation. We
regard this proposition .emanating from whom
it may, as being a most scandalous and im
pudent one, that the colored man cannot
prosper here, in the land of his birth, in a
climate adupled to his health, where labor is
abundant and well rewarded, where the pre
judice against him is rapidly disappearing
where, we ask, under the broad canopy of
Heaven, can he prosper ?—r.'o.
Do our readers carefully read the Poet’s
Corner of the North Star I If they do not,
they make what seems to us a great mistake,
by which they themselves are the greatest
losers. We not only have there, from week
to week, a collection of choice pieces, from
poets ot established celebrity, but we often
have original pieces, from persons of our own
despised race, which would reflect no discre
dit on the fame of some who have won the
high appellation of poet. It is, indeed, a
source of ineffable pleasure to our heart, to
be able to stand at this point, and to see,
rising up all around, men of talent, and even
of genius, who are aspiring to the higher
walks of literature, and are thus nobly refut
ing the monstrous and atheistical idea oi
natural inferiority, so often suggested in re
ference to our people.—r. p.
Gekrit Smith.—-We have just had a call
fmm, and a refreshing interview with this
great and good man. He had come to out
city to be present at the funeral of a family
relative, to whom we alluded last week. We
feH it excessively kind of him to seek us out,
doting his short stay, and to give us tbii
proof that bis is a heart large enough to re
ceive and shelter every member of the human
family, of whatever country, clime or color,
he may be. Not a member of our home
circle, but who felt the better for his cheering
influence and instructive conversation. What
a world should we have, were it peopled with
such men as Gerrit Smith His whole soul
seems to be occupied with thoughts as to how
he may best advance the well-being of his
race. God bless and preserve this man I —f.d.
It is highly gratifying to learn, that our
New York friends are awakening to the
importance of extending the circulation of,
and otherwise sustaining the North Star.
We are assured pf a strong desire, on the
part of a number of ladies, to hold a Fair in
New York city, for its benefit during anni
versary week in the month of May next.
This manifestation of interest is highly cre
ditable to fhem, and excites our deepest gra
titude.—r. p.
It will be seen, by reference to a circular,
emanating from the Executive Committee ol
the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery So
ciety, that an extensive plan of petitioning
the general government, op various points
connected with the anti-alavery agitation, is
proposed. The measure, if carried out, must
result in good to the cause of the slave, in
that it will add to the general agitation.
Every abolitionist should be active in the
work qf petitioning although such petitions
should be treated with indignity, and even
hurled back in the face of the petitioners, as
is likely to be the case.— r. d.
T«e Apti-Slayery Bugle is qne of the best
anti-slavery papers with which we exchange.
Its Editor has the faculty of compressing a
wide range of intelligence into the narrowest
possible space. Such a paper ought to re
ceive the hearty and abundant support of the
abolitionists of Ohio. f. n.
Wiuua* Jay.—The last among the many
good things, which this gentleman has per
formed, is the searching examination and ter
rible exposure which he has made of Clay's
Compromise Resolutions. His letter, ip the
Evening Post, on this subject, is s masterly
performance, and will, doubtless, prove the
musns of opening the eyes of many who
were rushing, blindfolded by the eloquent
sophistry of Clay, to the support of his adroit
scheme to dofeat the exclusion of slavery
front the Territories.—r. p.

The strange and not jet accoontod-far
knocking which has, for soma time, engaged
the attention of p»py credulous persons in
this city, hi making quite a noise in the world
just now. Hie papers, in all directions, are
copying long accounts of this mysterious
something, which is represented to have come
to let u« into the mysteries ef the future state.
Well, it's an easy thing to make a noise in
the world! Moat of our citizens, we balieva,
have decided to pursue their own business,
undisturbed by the little mischief-maker, ft
now goes on as nsnal, however, in its ooijne
of throwisg over tables, raising chain, tast
ing about tedtsa' garments, playing an the
piano, |nd performing other wild and erratic
capers, which give it the appearance of being
anything than useful, and tend to remove
all solemn impressions even from tbp minds
of Us Mjevera —r o-
Tk« Pim Mkn of XtwaekoMtU.
Hon. Hoary Wilooo, Foot Whittier, and
Hon. Milton Earle, have issued a thrilling
call, for a contention of the Free Soil
Party,” to be bold in Faaoail Hall, Boston,
on the 97th., February.
Sotnetbiag of their spirit nay be fathered
froa the following extract, eel from their call:
“At any and every hssard—their fixed un
alterable purpose under the Constitution and
within the Union to arrest tbs extension of
Slavery into the territories now free,—to
abolish the Slave Trade and Slavery in the
District of Colombia—to reiievs the Federal
Government from all connection with and re
sponsibility for Slavery,—and to place the
Government openly, actively and perpetually
on the side of freedom. The people and the
people alone can avert the timid action ol
their representatives and reassure the oppo
nents of Slave Extension.
“In this crisis, the true friends of Liicbty
and Union, in Massachusetts, are called upon
to assemble in Faneuil Hall, where their fath
ers were wont to meet, in the dark and troub
led days of the Revolutionary contest. The
Committee would urgently press upon their
fellow citiseus, the importance of taking im
mediate measures to secure a full attendance,
of firm, true, and wise men, who will devote
one day in an honest effort to reseue liberty
now periled—the Union now madly assailed.”
If the above were a fair type of the general
eealiment and spirit of the North, no power
beneath the sun, could carry slavery into the
new territories. It that vile accumulation ol
guilt and infamy shall be fastened upon the
Free Soil of New Mexico, the responsibility
for the outrage must fall upon the North
for if Slavery shall go there, it will be in con
sequence of Northern indifference on the one
hand, and Northern votes on the other.—-r. o.
Eighteenth Annnal Report of the Mas
sachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
We welcome this document, for which we
here been impatiently looking, as we would
the face of an old and dear friend. We have
read it With deep interest, and have given our
readers a taste of its quality on the first page
of this week’s paper. From the name of the
Report readers might infer that it embraced
and treated of matters merely oi a local char
acter. Such, however, is not the fact. It is
a most complete and philosophical history of
the various events connected with the ques
tion of slavery, which have transpired
throughout the whole country, from January
1849 to January 1850. This Report is from
the pen of Edmund Quincy, Esq.; and his
name is a sufficient guarantee for the literary
ability and philanthropic fidelity with which
the work is performed. We hope to enrich
our columns with extracts from this invalu
able document, in future numbers of the
North Star.— f. d.
O*. Liberty what deeps are dome im
thy name !”—We hare copied the following
list of Advertisements from single number
of the St. Louis Republican. To each of
the advertisements, as it stood in the Repub
lican, is prefixed the figure of a human being,
as if in the act of running. We have no
such figures nor prints in our office, to en
able us to follow copy but the reader must
supply them for himself. Think of a respect
able newspaper, representing the moral senti
ment of the roost influential paipt pf the ppm
munity, stringing together, in its long col
umns, in company with horses, sheep, and
swine, the figures of thirty or forty human
beings, to be disposed of in the same market
with the former. In view of such advertise
ments, how scandalously wicked is the state
ment made by Mr. Lee, declaring that the
moral obligations resting on the slaveholder,
are fully recognised at the South, and that
slaves are well treated. There, is, perhaps,
no charge which slaveholders more stoutly
and perseveringly deny, than the charge of
brptal indifference to the feelings and wants
of the slave, as a man. There is not one,
among all who carry on the infernal traffic in
human flesh, who does not flatter himself that
he is a hind and amiable master. He can
hunt his slave with a bloodhound lacerate
his back with a benumbing and deadening
colt; cause the blood to flow with a piercing
cowskin sell a babe from the bosom of in
mother; sunder the bonds pf marriage;
darken and blight the understanding, and yet
console himself with the idea that he is a
kind, and gentle and that the pool
slave, wfAaut such a protector would soon
reach a depth pf misery, pf which he Pan
now scarcely [conceive Oh, the deceitful
ness of sin! the perverseness of the human
heart! That human nature can be so harden
ed and so depraved, is as humiliating as it it
appalling. But here are the advertisements.
They speak for themselves.—r. d.
Negroes for sale,and wanted'—seam
stress, two sprightly girls, 18 and 13 yeari
old; a boy J 5, two men, and several gooc
women for sale, from the country. Thi
highest cash price paid for negroes of every
description, at our depot, 03 Olive st„ where
we are prepared to receive and board oegroei
brought imp the market for sale,having a goo«
jail and yard. Blake y dr McAfee.
B. M. LYNCH— Suocessor to White A
Tooley—No. 104 Locust street, St.Lonis,Mo
is prepared to pav the highest prices, in cash
for good and likely Negroes, or will fnrnisl
boarding for others in comfortable quarters
under secure fastenings. He will also attorn
to the sale and purchase of negroes on com
mission.
ItyNegroea for sale at all times.
Negroes wanted— The highest cash prim
will be paid fot all descriptions of Negroes,by
the undersigned, who c*n always be found a
the Planters’ Houae, St. Louis, Missouri.
B. W. Powell.
Runaway Notice.—Was committed tc
jail in the eounty of Ste. Genevieve, State
of Missouri, on the 19th day of December,
1849, as a runaway alaye, a negro boy, who
call# himself General; aged about 16 yean;
abqut 5 feet nigh; a mulatto; had on an old
cloth cap, casaimere pants, blue roundabout
coat, white pleted bosom shirt; says be be
longs to two gentlemen by the name of Con
ner, whoreside in the town* of Memphis,
and to McAfee of the city of St. Lewie.
The owner of said slave is hereby notified
to make application, andjpay charges for said
slave within three months frpqj this date,
otherwise he will be eold on Wednesday, the
80th day of March next, (I 860) at the court
honee doer, m the city of Ste. Genevieve, to
the highest bidder for cash, in accordance
with th« statute in such oases made and pro
vided. W. C. Varner.
Sheriff Ste. Genevieve Co. Mo.
Arkansas, on the «th day of Oat. 1849.
betdad^SioJ 4
was formally tbt property of William F.
Esq., diwsd lata of this place.
Tba abort reward will be given for the ap
prehension sad detection of Mid boy in any
J" 1 State to the Union, so that 1
get hiaa; half the anaoent if appeahawded and
committed to jail in Arkaaeae!^^
B. H. Neely.
Fon hied— Several yoong negroes, male
and female, suitable for house servants or
aaraes.
Enquire south-east come rof Pine sad
Eighth attests.
Fob sale —I wish to sell privately, an ex
cellent Dining-room Servant Boy, aged about
years, very likely and of good character.
Tnoa. N. Welch,
City Hotel.
Two HUNDRED AND MITT NEGROES WAN
TED.—From the ages of 19 to 30, men, wo
men boys sod girls, for whieh I will pay the
highest cash price; sod gentlemen of the city
of St. Louis and the State of Missouii will do
well to give me a call befote selling at any of
the negro yards, as they buy and sell in this
market and speculate upon the people here at
home, and I buy for another market, and can
afford to pay better prioes than they can pay.
I can be found at Barnum’s City Hotel at
all times. Gentlemen that should call and
not find me in, will leave their namea on a
note book and their numcers in the City
Hotel office. J. M. Heady.
Negro ron sale— l will sell to the highest
bidder for cash, at the Court House door, on
Fourth street, in the city of St. Louie, by or
der of the St. Louie Probate Court, a negro
Woman named Priscilla, aged about forty
years. Sale will tike place at 11 o’clock,
a. m, on the 10th day of January, 1850.
John. F. Dabby,
Admin, of the estate of Louis Constant dec.
For sale—The undersigned will on Mon
day, the 14th iost., between the hours of 10
a. u. and 4p. m ,at the east end of the St.
Louis Court House, sell to the highest bidder
for cash, a likely negro Man, apout 39 years
of age, belonging to the estate of William
Laaley, deed.
John F. Nelson, Adm’r de bonis non.
Negroes foe sale—We offer for sale a
likely negro man, sound and healthy, aged 2d
years. Also, two girls, aged 9 and 19 years,
logethei with a very likely house girl, aged
15 years, all from the country and well raised.
Also two house women aged 30 and 35
years, good Cooks, Washers and Ifoners
We are also prepared to pmy the highest
prices for negroes at our Yard N 0.93 Olive at.
Blaxey McAfee.
A Black Stator to Tbomas Carlyle.—
Pleasant is it to record the ready gratitude
of bodies of men. Well, Thomas Carlyle,
the man who, with hia iron pen, prtcks“wind
bags;” who, with his Vulcanic fist, knocks
down the gisnt “Sham,”—Thomas Carlvle
ia to be rewarded by the West India plantar*
for hia late advocacy of “benehcent whip,”
and the Kentuckian wrath with which he has
all but destroyed emancipated*Black Quashee,’
the wretch who will not work among sugar
canes, unless well paid for his sweat, prefer
ring to live upon pumpkin! to be, in fact, a
free, luxurious cilixen of accursed Punpkin
dom. Thomas Carlyle is to be vicariously
executed in blsck marble, and to atand in (he
moatjconspicuous spot of the island of Jam
aica, with a pumpkin fashioned into a stan
dish ip one hand, apd the sugar-cane pointed
and nibbed into a pen in the other.
So should it be done unto the man whom
the slaveholder delights to honor.
There will be copies in little—statuettes—
for the American market, to grace the man
tel-shelf pfthe Viagipian man-buyer. (Punch.
A Picture of Northern Servility to
Southern Slavery,
Tbe following is from the Independent, and
is probably compiled by Joshua Leavitt.
What a disgusting catalogue of instances of
base truckling*, on the part of the North, to
tbe slave power. This catalogue should be
in the hands of every abolition lecturei, and
ought to be used by him to shame Northern
men into tbe appearance, if not the reality of
independence.*-?, p.
Mr. Qodey, finding that'syoophancy while
it worked admirably at the South was injuring
him at the North, replaced the name of Grace
Greenwood on his covers, without her know
ledge or consent! On being informed of this
characteristic act, this gifted authoress pub
lished a card disavowing all connection with
the Book.” which ought henceforth
to be styled Godey’s Sycophsntic Magazine.
A year or more ago Mr. Godey published
in hi Dollar Newspaper” a very humble
confession, that he had scrupulously en
deavored to avoid the most distnat allusion m
Ike subject of slavery.
But Mr. Gadey is not the only member of
the Sycophantic Association. A neighbor
of his, the American Sunday School Union,
last yeaT suppressed, or as they expressed it!
‘‘dropt from the catalogue’W of their stereo
typed books of sixteen years’ standing, at the
dictation of one of their Southern Vice-Presi
dents because in the work—“Jaeob and Hia
Stana”-~there was a definition of American
Slavery written in mild language.
The Methodist Episcopal Church had, says
the Western Citizen as a card for member
ship in one of their Societies, a picture repre
senting some view of Liberty and the Gospel
operating upon the slave scene in the distance.
This scene was found to be so unpleasant tt
the Slaveholders thst it was carefully erased,
and fair white figuree made to fill the place
of the blacks!
The impartial Citizen says that a relative
of F. Garre taon, who waa in hia early years
a Slaveholder, prepared hia memoir for pub
lication. In it waa mentioned the faet that
F. G bad become perauaded of the sin ol
Slaveholding, had freed his slaves, and peace
of conscience was the result. The MSS.
were sent to the Methodist Episcopal Book
Concern for publication, by whom the above
faet waa stricken out.
The Old School Presbyterians, offended at
the mutilations which had been perpetrated,
from time to time, on ike hymns of the good
J>». Watts, opposed to issue a perfect and
unaltered edition of “Watts’s Psalms and
behold when the book was pub
lished,it w|sa perfect transcript of the original
edition—except that sundry verses and some
entire hymns, in which there were ailasieor
to Slavery were omitted!
We remember, says the Citizen, the nu
merous instances of religious and Other books,
reprinted from Idondou editions, from which
4nti.Slavenr paragraphs and chapters were
cot, by the Helpers and other publishers, for
fear of offending the Sonth. Mias Sedgwick
wrote a book a few vean ago, which
aorno unwelcome u'utfi shoot “Southern Ip
aututioua.” The South fintad fault, and tbe
Harpers promised not to publish soy mors of
thst objectionable sort. So ia ’42 Judge Jay
furnished Professor Ron wick with MSS. from
which to write the life of his illustrious fa
ther, Juum Jay. To suit his owu taste, and
to please the Harpers, Prof. R. so mutilated
the Life of Jay as tolfalsify his position on tbs
Slavery qnestion. kludge Jay
through the columns of ibe N. Y. American
In 1817, J. K. Paulding puMiahed bis Lot
te™ from tbs South. Among other thinn he
A-eriM g.ng „f Sl.™. .odT.«
.h. fcr Ki». P. aiding boo.™ "„T
drdate for office, and upon the aeeessk* of
Mr. Van Burts tg tbs Presidency, Mr. Paul
dmg waa mads Bseistary of ths Navy. But
during tbs canvass a new edition of ths Lst
loro »Mpablub«d,do-
lion of aoontt which would folkfll abolition
at tbo South, and of tbo hue of that “fanau
ciam” at the North, with aoeurato dslioaa
tiooa of tbo reception which abolitionism had
already met with—all which wae altered in
the language of propheay, purporting to have
been written io 1847, hut in fact ia 1838, after
be bad beheld thebeeult of the agitation at the
Noith.
Baa croft, the historian, soon after the pub*
Ikmtion of hie first volume, and while he
foughi. school at Northampton, Maas, referred
the writer to a chapter on Slavery, which he
believed would please abolitiooiat*. Soon af
tar he bad political aapiiatiooa, aad ia tbe
naxt edition struck out and amended so aa to
remove all matter distasteful to the South.
He too received a seat in the Cabinet.
Longfellow, the poet—but very few Poets
of any age or country have yielded to tha
Slave Power—made some suppressions to
suit Southern readers. Time would fail to
enumerate all the American authors who
have stultified themselves to please their
Slaveholding readers. Some have had their
reward—some are expecting it—and some
have experienced that "hope deferred rack
et h the heart sick.” But we detain the rea
der too long from a peruaal of the article
from the Independent written by one of our
most popular orators, and applicable to others
beside Mr. Godey.
4 MIN IN THE MARKET.
If any of our readeis, befogged by patriotic
literature, or mystified by Scripture, have in
clined to believe all men born with the right
to be free, let him read the following letter,
and recant hia enrol.
{Here was inserted Godey’s letter to the
editors of the Columbia Telgeraph.)
This is a letter written wuhin sound of the
old Independence bell that baa swung so long
in Philadelphia, “proclaiming liberty to the
captive.’’ We do noi know which end to
touch of this monstrous meanness. We may
aa well dismiss al! faatidiousnes about our
hands, and take bold baldly. And so Grace
Gieenwood has gone off from that cover
“where it [her namejwaa placed nominally as
editoi she never having had the least control
over its columns.” Ah, dear Grace, we are
glad with you for this confession, aad shall
love you better for it as long as we live.
Not to have uttered a word for freedom for
twenty years ia a sterling virtue with this fel
low. To have spoken a word against the
gulf stream of abominations that deeply and
darkly flows all around the southern shore, ia
food for repentance. The very report of it
ia more than he can bear. I have not seen
the article in your paper alluded to, and should
like to receive it” The very suspicion of be
ing manly was not to be endured. Down he
goes on bis knees, begging pardon for every
thing possible in a lump, and ready for spec
ial contrition whenever the “paper alluded to
should oome to uand.”
Why do not Hope, or Slitter, or Bruin,
or Hill stop their dangerous trick of kidnap
ping black men at the peril of piiaone and
fines, and oome a little further north and take
men with white skins, and livers whiter yet?
The Slaves so got would be much more docile
and obsequious; and there would be little or
no risk of courts and sheriffs. Tha follow
that wrote that line about Graee Greenwood,
and about Sartaia’s rival Magasine, might he
kidnapped without violating any statute
which forbids the enslaving of Men. Ha
might prosecute under the set for sheep-steel,
ing; hut the penalty ia light, if the fleece is
worth the trouble of stealing.
The publisher says, “I have been publish
ing the Lady a Book for twenty years, and if
m that time one lint can bo found aspersing in
any way Southern Institutions I am willing lo
foil under your censure.” If fo that long pe
riod he has spokan oue woid of humanity—if
he has uttered one sentiment of justice—if he
has contributed one spark to the fire of patri
uttara—if there has breathed one stans% of
poetry for Right—ii he has had in his Maga
ame one word in favor of love, of the family
of the sacred relations of parent and chiM
husband and wife, mother and sister—then he
has sspersed Southern Institutions; whose
very foundations are laid in the negation of all
these. la this the magazine for our sons and
daughters to read?
Where is Box Brown? He ought to draw
out a chart of every step by which he escaped
from the meanest depths of Slavery, and send
it to this Magasine, that the infamous crowd
of pilgrims seeking to become slaves may have
something to steer by.
We are becoming acquainted with tbe
struggles of slaves to become freemen we
are also to learn how easily freemen become
slaves without a struggle. Every rood of
ground from the Potomac to the Gulf has
at me wretch,unlettered, untaught, who, with
out book or teacher, vindicates by hia irre
pressible aapirat.ona for freedom, his title u»
he man. The Slave’s darkened eye has
never read a word in our noble Decleration, or
a line in that Book from which it sprang but
the law’ of Nature and of God written on hia
heart he has deeply pondered. All tha rubs
and grindings of poverty and oppression have
not effaced une letter of it. By this sacred
instioct they have burst all restraints—turned,
to the North Star and to God for guidence and
protectioh and groping by night and hidden
by day, or half smothered in ships’ holds, and
boxed up in cubic inches not enough tor a
child, with weariness, hunger, foar and faint
ness, they have sought a place of freedom.—
The fesr of bondage swallowing up all other
fear, as did Moses’s serpent-rod all other rods.
God’s blessing on every such fugitive! They
are worthy of liberty. A slave who knows
his rights and is determined to be free, is more
a freeman and more a man than bis master
who denies hia rights and clutches at him for
Slavery.
This same {road ia mow thronged with a
motley crowd traveling southward, as anxious
lot the shame of supple servility as tbe slave
a for the manliness of liberty. They hang
themselves up in the shambles of every South
ern market. They trust the pliant good na
ture ot the North, and are only fearful lest
they shall foil to be mean enough to nlease
he Sooth. r
Are these the men who are to direct the
eading of our children Are their maga
unea to lie upon eur tables Are publishers
o emasculate every transatlantic book, until
t wilt pass onrrent at the South Are our
chool-book publishers timidly to weigh every
vord, and let our children grow up ignorant
tow to spell the words slave, oppression,tyrant.
rat tbe South should be offended
We do not say that the North should stand
p tor Northern rights far there is no -rrh
ding as Northern rights. But we do aav
list every man, North or South, should stand
p for the rights of Mm; aad that truckling
illowa in high places should meet the rebuke
nd buffet ot every one who has an instinct to
tent the approach of meanness, or a heart
ith which to roll indignation upon H.
To OB* English Faitsi» and Coaax
spom dints. —It ib wi'j deep regret that we
hear, through out friend, A. H. R., of New
caMle, that our papers have not been regular*
Ijr received of late. We eaa eel; state that
they have been punctually mailed for Eng
land ,and that no neglect bee occurred, in thin
wspect, in our office. —r. o.
The Executive Committee
Of the Western New York Anti-Slavery
Society, are requested to meet at the houae of
Isaac Post, 38 Sophia Meet, ee Saturday
February 83, at o'clock punctually.
JOHN DICK, &e y.
Mr. Calhoun.—Mr. Calhoun is said still said to be in a precarious condition. His physicians doubt whether he can reach home. Although his returning to public life is rendered an impossibility, he has declared to some of his friends that he will again address the Senate, though he dies in the attempt.
Circular
To each friend of Liberty in the United Statu
Your prompt attention it earnestly requested
to this communication. Pinnae read it, with
the annexed farms of Petitions, and then set
efficiently in the premises.
The time has arrived when the people of the
United States are called in the providence of
God to decide for themselves and their latest
posterity, whether human bondage, with all its
terrific evils, shall be suffered to extend itself
from the Atlantic to the Pacific, blighting the
prosperity ot immense portions of our country,
and dooming millions ol the human race to ig
norance, degradation and wretchedness. In
this decision are also involved the political
power and independence of the Fief States,
and the character and glory of our common
country.
The objects which at this moment are most
prominent in public estimation, connected with
the subject of slavery, ate the cruel and arbi
trary manner in which alleged fugitives from
slavery are seized and carried away—the abo
lition of the slave-trade and slavery in the
District of Columbia —and the prohibition of
slavery in the new territories. And it is be
leived that the friends of freedom cannot do a
better service, at the present juncture, to the
sacred cause, than by petitioning the national
legislature from all pans of the country respec
ting these great objects. The reflex influence
of such petitions will be obvious to every re
flecting mind. It will lead to conversation,
public discussion, newspaper essays, public
meetings, supplications to the Almighty, and
sympathy for the enslaved.
For several years past there has been a re
laxation among the friends of the slave, in this
department of effort. It is believed that now
is the time, when there are so many pledged
friends of the cause in Congress, to resume
petitioning with augmented effort. We invoke
the aid, therefore, of every friend of the slave,
of every anti-alavery citizen, of every true
hearted American, in thia work of humanity
and patriotism. Let earnest efforts be made to
awaken oar citizens to the momentous impor
tance ef the present crisis, and to unite them
in one loud and urgent demand on their repre
sentatives to giant the prayers of our petitions.
Does the reader ask, What can 1 do? We
answer
1. Call together a few intelligent and active
friends of the cause, and read them this
Circular, and the annexed farms of Pe
tition.
2. Adopt prompt and systematic measures
to have each legal voter called upon fur
his signature.
3. Separate these forms of Petitions and
attach each to a sheet of paper properly
ruled.
4. Get those who can he depended upon to
circulate the Petitions, and procure the
signature of every citizen to each of them.
5. Have the Petitions collected and trans
mitted as soon as possible, with a letter
signed by a few prominent constituents,
to the Member et Congress from youi
District or State. The paper should be
folded for filing, with en endorsement
staling that it is the Petition of Citi
zens and Electors of with the date.
6. Get the Circular and Petitions inserted in
all the newspapers and magazines in your
County. Request the editors to advocate
the prayer of the petitions during the
whole session of Congresa.
7. Get suitable persons to write for the
newspapers, aud coirespond with the
friends of the cause throughout your
County and State.
8. Petition youi Legislature, and try to in
fluence the members to right action at the
preaeot crisis.
9. Please mail a copy of each of the news
papers in your County that publishes the
Circular and Petitions, or either of them
to Lewis Tappan, Corresponding Secre
tary, New York. Unless sent from the
printing office, the postage must be pre
paid.
Doubtless other matters will suggest them
selves to’you.
n? If, from any cause you cannot pay im
mediate personal attention to the subject, we
beg of you to put the Circular Ac., into the
hands of some well principled and efficient per
son who will attend to the matter without de
lay in a thoiougb and buianess like manner.
The slave power ia now making a desperate
and final effort to prevent the admission of
California, with the prohibition of slavery, and
any such prohibition by Congress in respect
to New Mexico, and thus secure its perma
nent ascendency on the North American con
tinent. Ita success will be the triumph of evil,
involving the subjection of noithem interests
to the ariatoermey of the south, and a mighty
empire to the various curses attendant upon
human bondage. To attain success, resort is
had to threats of dissolution—threats evidently
intended for intimidation, since if carried into
execution they would leault in the ruin ol the
■asters and the liberation of the slaves.—
Should the effort now fail, slavery will never
hereafter acquire sufficient strength to pass its
present limits, nod the world will in time be
delivered from oue of the direst scourges that
has ever afflicted humanity.
S. S. JOCELYN,
WILLIAM JAY,
ARTHUR TAPPAN,
WILLIAM E. WHITING,
LUTHER LEE,
CHRISTOPHER RUSH,
GEORGE WHIPPLE,
WILLIAM LILLIE,
LEWIS TAPPAN,
J. WARNER,
CHARLES B. RAY 1
THOMAS RITTER, M. D
ALEX. MACDONALD.
N*w Yo»I, February 1860.
m» Editors throughout the country an
earnestly requested to ioeertt be foregoing, and
the annexed form of petitions:
PETITION.
To Secure to alleged J'ugiUou the right oj
Trialky Jury.
Te nr Coneaiaa os the United States
The undersigned citizens and electors of tlu
State of residing ia in tin
oeuuty of respectfully request lbs
provision be made by lew, that whenever i
person shall be arrested ns a fogative slave in
any aims ether than that in which be ia al
leged in be held to eerviee, he shall not hr
delivered to the claimant or his agsat, except
on the fading of Jury that he is the sian
of tbs daiasst.
NAMES. NAMES.
PETITION
For Use Repeal of all Loses enacted or adopted
by Congress, for the support of slavery in
the District of Columbia.
To the Congress or the United States
The undersigned, citizens and electors of
th« State of redding in in the
county of respectfully pray for the
repeal of all laws and parts of lawa adopted
or enacted by Congress, by which slavery or
the slave-trade is authorised or sanctioned in
the city of Washington or the District of Col
umbia and that, in the event of their non
repeal, the seat of the National Government
may be removed to some more suitable loca
tion.
NAMES. NAMES.
PETITION
Against the Admission of more slave states into
the Union.
To the Congress or the United Stater
The undersigned, citizens slid electors of
the Stste of residing in in the
county of respectfully prmy that no
State he hereafter admitted into the Union,
unless the Constitution of such State shall ex
pressly prohibit the existence of Slavery
within its limits.
NAMES. NAMES.
PETITION
For the Establishment and Protection of Free
dom tn the Territories of the United Statu.
To the Congress or the United States
The undersigned, citizens and electors of
the State of residing in in the
county of respectfully pray that Sla
very and the Slave-trade may be expressly
piohibiled by act of Congress in all the Terri
tories in the United States.
NAMES. NAMES.
To a Charitable Public.
Buffalo, Jan. 1, 1850.
Dear Friend :—The Ladies’ Literary and
Progressive Improvement Society, of the city
of Buffalo, is an Association which has been
but recently formed, having for its object the
great and important principles of the moral
intellectual, political, and social advancement
of its members, by endeavoring to promote,
so far as possible, evury branch of literature,
art and science, and encouraging every poli
tical reform, which tends to secure human
rights or elevate human character.
Their object ia also to establish a library
and reading loom, and to seek, through every
avenue, the general interest and welfare of
its members. And as they have undertaken,
in its infancy, thia great and responsible
work, they feel it obligatory upon them to
call upon the sympathies of a charitable pub
lic, to assist them in lhair undertaking. They
contemplate building a public hall for their
accommodation, and also for the accommoda'
tion of every friend of God and humanity,
the election of which they contemplate will
cost one thousand dollars or upwards. And
they therefore most respectfully and earnestly
solicit donations, from the friends throughout
the country, which may be forwarded to the
address of the President or the Secretary.
And, in making this appeal, we most charit
ably hope that it will meet a favorable recep
tion at yonr hands.
In behalf the Association, we remain, with
due regard,
SYDNA E. R. FRANCIS, Pru.
Mary E. Weie, Sec'y.
S. King, Agent, No. 7, Franklin Block,
Syracuse.
Education —School Discipline.
The proper manner of educating children is
an inquiry of vital importance,-—and about
which there are various opinions. Some
cling tenaciously to the iod of coercion, as the
only means of securing order and obedience,
and of developing the better qualities of hu
man nature. —Though this is “an error of the
head, rather than of the heart,” I conceive
it to be one which is doing incalculable injury
to the rising generation. Children are often
found fault with, when they should be en
couraged-—whipped when they ought to be
advised and as a consequence, instead of de
veloping their better natures, they become
hardened and revengful.
Certain I am that kindness on the part of a
teacher to a pupil, U the only successful mode
of awakening those faculties of the mind and
heart, which are necesaaiy to be aroused and
strengthened, in order to the formation of a
proper and desirable character. 1 was re
cently highly pleased by hearing of a teacher
who said, he should as soon think of carrv
ing a gun into school, as a switch. This is
as it should be. To think of mending the
heart, by bruising the flesh, is as absurd as it
is debasing. God is love,” and everything
that emanates from Him is pure, lovely, and
elevating and in dealing with children this
idea should be kept constantly before the
mind. Teachers, of all others, should pos
sess that spirit manifested by the Saviour—
Suffer little children to corns unto me for
of such is the kingdom of Heaven.” If we
possessed that spirit, and manifested it on all
occasions, before those beloved one* whom
the Father has entrusted to our care, we
should save ourselves from .many a heart
rending pang, by the virtuous rectitude
whichj would appear in tbe characlei and
uonduct of our children.
SARAH D. FISH.
Rochestek, Feb. 8, JB5O.
Washington, Tuesday, Feb. 19, 1850.
Right or Petition fee.—The only three
Senators who maintained yesterday, by their
votes, the right of petition as a means which
the people t»eve, in a representative govern
ment, of expreaaing their views, whether
crude and unreasonable, or wise, rational and
practicable, for the information of those to
whom they have delegated (power f<u a time,
were Messrs. Seward, Chase and Hale. The
day is fast approaching in which their senti
ments, though condemned by a vast majority
of Senators, North and South, will have few
opponents, lkm sure, bed you had a voice,
it would have been ng»»nat gagging any con
stituency, however improper it blight be, in
yoor judgment, to comply with their requests.
The Philadelphia Quakers think that to en
courage, strengthen, uphold, extend, defend,
propagate Slavery is to disobey God's com
mand; they urge this upon tbe Senate in a
respectful memorial; the Senate, instead of
receiving and referring it to a committee, to
show that tbe memorialists are in error, throw
it under their table, and allow Mr. Sturgeon
to cell respectable men black-hearted, fee.,
without a rebuke! This in Washington in
IB6o!'!— Tribune.
Kossuth. A foreign correspondent of the
London Times says: “Whet aa extraordina
ry reputation this man Kossuth bee left after
him From Otaovs to Vienna, by water or
by land, there hardly ever peas ten minutes is
the day that you do ant be* mention of fait
gad in Perth, where the sale ef hie
portrait la a capital offence, the Magym
club together to purchase single copy at
exorbitant prices, and tear ft itrio fragments
which are abased between there." n
Thirty First (digress.
IN SENATE.
W ashing roe, Friday, F«6. 15, 1860.
After the reception ot petitions, reports
from Committees and Resolutions, the Senate
resumed the consideration of the President’s
Message, transmitting the Constitution ot
California.
Mr. Butler addressed tho Senate inoppo
sition to the separation of the question of the
admission of California from the other agita
ting question of the day—lt would be un
wise. He desired to say to the majority, not
to place the question of California’s admission
in a situation in which the best and wisest
men in the country would have no control
over it. He did not make the salvation of the
Union, under any circumstances, the gteat
and paramount question. His desire was, to
save the Union, if it could be done at the
same time, that the rights and interest of his
constituents were saved. He wanted to ae
cnre both together. One waa valueless with
out the other. He alluded to Mr. Clay’s
remarks yesterday, in relation to the allegi
ance which he recognised, and expressed his
surprise that the Senator had boldly declared
that he owed no allegiance to the south. He
was prepared to hear him say that we owed
allegiance to the Union, assn entire body, but
not to hear him declare that he owed no
legiance to one particular section.
Mr. Clay interposing said, that he thought
he had said, and if he had not said it, he
meant that he acknowledged no specific al
legiance to any section—that he acknowledg
ed allegiance only to the sovereignty of Ken
tucky and to the sovereignty of the Union.
Mr. Butlei slid, that for himself he knew
no Union, except that which South Carolina
might recognise, owed no allegiance except
to South Carolina, and no allegiance to the
Union except through her. As to the settle
ment of the question of the admission of Cali
fornia, together with all other agitating
questions so intimately connected therewith,
be was willing to render the whole subject to
a Committee, composed entirely of northern
men, for the purpose of ascertaining what
they were prepared to offer the south. Mr. B.
then proceeded at some length with remarks
against the admission of Culifornia* with her
present sonstitution and boundaries, asserting
that such act would be a violation of the well
settled practice and usage.
He contended also that her constitution was
the result of an usurpation of power for the
purpose of getting rid of the Wilmot proviso
—measures worse ten thousand times than the
proviso had been adopted. He also argued
the inexpedincy of the admission of the new
state, contending that it would leave to one
section the choice either of submission, deg
radation, or secession. The south demanded
equality—nothing more, and would submit to
nothing less. In conclusion, he appealed to
the senate to settle this, or any one of the
questions connected with the slavery agitation,
until every man who desires it should have an
opportunity to express his views, in the hope
(hat some made of settlement might be sug
gested.
Mr. Badger said that he was not responsi
ble for the difficulties which had thus grown
out of the war with Mexico. If the Senator
from South Carolina, Mr. Butler, who says
he had foreseen the danger and difficulties
which must result from the acquisition of
new Territory, had united with any other
two Senators, who also foresaw the difficulty,
but voted with him—if these Senators has
cast their votes for an amendment to the
Mexican Treaty offered by him, Mr, Badger,
striking out all acquisition, these foreseen
troubles might all have been avoided.
Mr. Butler interposing, said that the amend
ment was offered at too late a day.
Mr. Badger resuming, remarked that he
had said duiing the discussion of the treaty,
that, notwithstanding he believed the origin
of the war, with Mexico to have been un
necessary and unjust—he would rather have
continued it an hundred years than that it
should eave resulted in an acquisition of ter
ritory, ta produce internal commotion and dis
union.
Mr. B. then proceeded to state his objec
tions toihepropoaed instructions to the Com
mittee on Territories.
Mr. Wkbstkx concurred in the propriety
of giving this subject a calm and deliberate
consideration. It was a grand and important
question, and he designed for one, to give it
a more careful examination. It was a ques
tion tn which tho whole country, and all sec
tions of the country, were deeply interested,
and he thought it the duty of every Senator
to express the result of his studious delibera
tion thereon. He did not design to intimate
any immediate expression of his own views,
although he would probably, in the course of
the discussion, state hia views. He was ready
to admit that there were mauy difficulties at
tending the proposition to admit California,
but hoped to be able to show that they are not
insuperable. It was in this spirit that he
designed to meet the subject.
Mr. Hale desired to say a word in relation
to the precedents for the proposed action.
Some four or five years ago there Vere two
exciting questions —Texas and Oregon—be
fore the eounlry. They both, like the Sia
mese twine, went through the Presidential
election together; but when the election was
over, and they came to legislate, these sisters
were separated, and Oregon had to ait with
in the cold region of 54 40, until Taxas was
taken care of. This, then, was a precedent,
and he hoped it would be followed. He hoped
California would first be taken care of, and
then, after she hid been brought safely and
•nuglv into the Union, that they would pro
ceed and take up the other questions and
dispose of them also.
Mr. Clemens next took the floor, when
the further consideration of the subject was
postponed until Tuesday, and the Senate ad
journed to Monday next.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
The House went into Committee of the
Whole on the State of the Union.
Mr. Root said that he would go for admit
ting California with her present boundaries,
and for ratifying all that had been done. He
differed from the president in his do-qothing
Stlicy, and was in favor of doing something.
e believed that a majority of both branches
of Congress were in favor of action. It was
not the fault of the House that nothing was
doqe st the last session: for the House passed
a bill at that time, but the august Senate did
nothing with it. The Walker amendment
was tacked on to the civil end diplomatic ap
propriation bill in the Senate; there was s
fixed and settled determination to force it
through, and if was not relinquished until it
was known that by rersistanoe the bill would
be lost. He was one of those who were de
termined that the amendment should not be
passed, and helped to fight it off.
We are told that spuihprn gentlemen have
the same object in view—but they must not
jump too quick nor tun too fast. The people
of New Mexico should have constitutional
law, instead of that of the bowie knife. Why
was Mineeota provided with a territorial gov
ernment! She had a population of only 80,-
000 What is fhe ohjeptiop urged against
prohibiting slavery in territories now free!
Because it Is said the harmony of the country
would be disturbed! In hit opinion, it was
rather to avoid disturbing the harmony of
parts of the country. The framers of the
constitution never contemplated the acquisi
tion of territory—if so,' they would We
made soma provision for its management.
The provisions in that instrument related to
the territory then possessed. We have so
equtl number of free and slave states, end
we are told it would be aggteesioo to admit
another free etafe. the youth le
isurely stronger than she was st the time of
the formation of the constitution! A Urge
majority of the people 'W Congress
bee the exclusive right to legislate pvyr the
Hfi would not compromise on the ground of
constitutionality and right; be would
DFOnitA An tkg fliiflitiiir wtHCOuJ*
L: hltT M. Ot human freedom,
m r -uaGod. He belonged to the re
viled section of Free Soilers, and there would
be oo difficulty in making an issue with
bim. Gentlemen bad been taunted with tbe
rematk tbat the Wilinot proviso ia dead. It
must be gratifying to northers men to be told
to their (aces, that the Wilinot proviso has
been murdered in the Rouse by its friends,
and trampled under foot; but the proviso is a
living and abiding principle in the breaets of
the people of tbe free states. It may appear
that instead of the pioviso being dead, tboas
twenty membeis who voted to lay it on the
table may have committed suicide. Not ten
of these men could have come here, it they
hsd told tbeir constituents whit they would
have done. There was one thing more absurd
than theory of dissolution of the Union, and
that was the alarm that gentlemen feel about
it. Dissolution was a mere speculative ques
tion. He averred that if this should occui,
the children of the ordinance bf 1787 would
float up and down the Mississippi river when
ever they please.
Mr. Welborne said that the ordinance of
1787 was passed by the Congress of Confed
eration, before the adoption of the constitu
tion. It was a matter of fact that there was
no territory belonging to the states when they
entered into the Union.
Mr. Fitch asked, whether the first Congress
did not recognise the ordinance.
Mr. Welborne repeated, that no territory
then belonged to the states, and for this reason
it was pioperly remarked in the Federalist,
by Mr. Madison, that it was out of constitu
tional power to pass tbe ordinance. He sub
mitted two resolutions, and trusted that they
would be adopted, via: That it is inexpedient
to receive California as s state, with her pre
sent constitution, restricting slavery north of
36 38; that the Committee on Territories be
instructed to report btiis providing for the or
ganization of that prution sooth of that line,
and the territories of New Mexico and Des
eret. prohibiting slavery north of 36 30, and
recognising the admissibility of slavery south
of that line, until the adoption by the inhabi
tants thereof, of state constitutions, and their
incorporation into the Union. A portion of
the people of California had different lan
guages, religions and colors, and two years
ago they were conquerred by our arms. By
the laws of naturalization they could not
recognise the first tight of citizen suffrage.
Would the free states consent to receive Cali
fornia without a limitation of boundary This
proposition does not give the whole of the
territory to either party, but divides it. It
proposes repose; but it would be better to
settle the question now, than to let it remain
as an apple of discord hereafter. He spoke
earnestly on the importance of settling the
question on high national grounds. Some
times he thought that there was only one
thing people would bow down to, and that
was the infernal demon of party. He afier
wstds imagined that the American people
were the least considerate and grateful on
earth, considering the untold blessings they
enjoy; while the downtrodden people of the
old wdrld experience jnunmerable oppressions,
and are crowded together, while we have
the pure, free air of heaven. In conclusion,
he appealed to all to come forward and honor
ably adjust all their existing difficulties.
Mr. Mann claimed to be a free toiler, if the
term included one who wished territories to
be free. If a slave soiler was one who de
sired to bear slaves, he was willing to be
weighed in the balance, with the epithets which
had been applied to the free soilers. Though
the term abolitionist was used as a term of
reproach, fortunately it may be used in an
honorable sense, and [if abolitionist means a
man who desires to abolish what ought to be
abolished, then he took pleasure in being
one. There are some who desire the abolition
of the Union, and he was content that to
these the term should be used as a term of
reproach. It was applicable to persons at the
north; but they wete few in number, and
feeble in power. It was announced by Gen
eral Caas, that Congress has no right to
legislate on any subjects, including slavery,
pertaining to the territories. The senator
was driven to this, because if he had admitted
the right to legislate at all, it can be applied
to slavery. If Congress has no power to
legislate, how is it that gentlemen propose to
legislate for California, New Mexico and
Deseret, and settle their boundaries ?—Tf
question cannot be settled according to this
doctrine. When persons leave their states,
they leave behind them their local laws.
They do not carry their rystem of education
with them, or their former laws on the sub
ject of lotteries and gaming; they become
subject to the law where they locate. As to
the south’s considering tbe Wilmot Proviso
an insult, there could be none, when insult is
not intended, and disavowed. This is tbe
tule among gentlemen. The north propose
the Wiliwt Proviso, only to assert the great
right of mankind. It is a fixed and settled
purpose of the north that there shall be no
more slave territory and slave states. He
then spoke of the Southern Convention and
the threats which had been made, in case of
the passage of the Wilmot Proviso. A dis
solution of the Union cannot be peacable;
overt steps must be taken to carry it into
effect; custom-houses, magazines, arsenals,
Ac. must first he seized—and this would bring
into requisition the power of the Executive,
who has sworn to support the Union, and see
that the laws are faithfully executed; and
this weuld inflame the country into civil war.
He could not contemplate this subject without
a shudder. If the day come, it would be with
thunderings above, and earthquakes below,
and darkness around—and when the darkness
shall be lifted up, they would see the country
severed, and the deep, profound gulf between,
the sections filled with the scarred bodies ot
the combatants, and we would find our hands
and garments red with suicidal blood. How
could we stand before posterity, and say that
the event came to pass because it was deter
mined to carry slavery to a country vyhere it
does not now exist, apd to retrograde to the
dark ages, while ill the world is looking on;
but this was to take place at any and every
hazard. If such an event must befall the
country, weeanoot but see the disastrous con
sequences.
The Cheap Postuge BIU.
Tbe following is the Cheap Pnpstage Bill
introduced into the House of Representatives,
by Mr. Ashmun, of Massachusetts:
An Act to regulate Postage Rates, and
for abolishing the Franking Privilege.
$l. Be it enacted That from and after
the let day of July next, the rates of pottage
upon letters, when pre-paid, shall fee uniform;
and all such letters passing through the mails,
shall be charged by weight, aa follows, vi*;
Letters weighing not more than half an
ounce, two cents:
—More than half an ounce, and not mow
than one ounce, four cento
-—More than an ounce, and not more than
an ounce and a half, six cents
—More than an ounce and a half, and not
more iban two ounces, eight cenis;
—And four oents additional for every ounce
of greater weight.
All letters conveyed by mail steamers be
tween Oregon and California, and ports pf
other parte of the United States, five tiroes
the above rates:
—And bn all letters which are not pro-paid,
the poeUge shall remain as now established

That it shall be the duty Pt .the Pert
muter Perietal tp provide suitable letter
stamps, for the pre-payment of postage, of
the several denominations of tyro <*ota, four
cents, six cents, and eight cents, and of such
other denominations at he may deem expedi
ent; and to pqusp them to be' ftwwshed and
kept for side in each of the Poet the
United State#; R»d any deputy Postmaster
..Z snail foil, by his own neglect, to fcfyf
the snow for sal# to ptreun ayplvHM*
thereto, shill be liable to a e**-*-
every such fed-* .for
n#** -re, to be recovered by the
f ..*oo so applying. And any perm who
shall counterfeit, alter, or forge say letter
stamp, or who shall knowingly have in hie
possession any false, forged org altered letter
stamps, with intent to nee or alter the same,
shall be deemed to be goihy of felony, &c.
$3. If. by reason ef this Act, the compen
sation of any Deputy Postmaster shall be re
duced below the present rate, the Postmaster
Genera! is hereby authorised, at his discre
tion, to iocrease such compensatian so far ss
justice may require, having regard to the
amount of labor, and the character of the
service performed: provided, that the whole
amount of compensation in any yoar shall not
exceed the amount allowed at the same office
in the fiscal year ending the let day of July
next, and whenever a new Poet Office shall
be established, the Poet master General may
fix the amount of annual compensation of the
Deputy Postmaster at a rate not larger than
is allowed at existing offices requiring the
same amount of service.
The franking privilege, except so far
as It may have been conferred by Congress
upon individuals ss s mark of respect and
honor, it hereby abolished; and the Postage
of all documents published by either House
of Congress, and all communications to and
from members of either House, mailed during
the session, including speeches delivered
therein, and all communications to and from
the offices of House upon public ser
vice, shall be fmd out of the contingent fund
of the respective Houses, under such regu
lations as each House shall prescribe for it
self; and all communications to and from the
General Departments of Government, proper
ly chargeable to the public service, shall be
marked as such, and the postage thereof be
paid like other contingent expenses of the De
partments.
$5. If the receipts of the Post Office, in
cluding the amount paid on account of the
postage of Congress and the Departments,
shall be insufficient to defray the expenses of
the Post Office Department with the present
extent of mail accommodations, and such fur
ther extension thereof as may be made by
Congress or the (Post Office) Department,
the deficiency shall be paid out of any money
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Provided, That the entire aggregate expen
diture of the Post Office Department, exclu
sive of the salaries of officers, clerks, and
messengers of the General Post Office, and
the contingent fund of the same shall not ex
ceed the annual sum of five millions of dollars.
Jenny Lind. —lt will be seen by the fol
lowing letter to P. T. Barnum, Esq., proprie
tor of the American Museum, that Jenny
Lind, the Swedish nightingale, is soon to visit
this country
Lubkck, Bth Jan., 1850,
Sir—At the requestor your agent, Mr.
who is now here, and whose object
is, at the earliest opportunity, to advise you,
1 beg to state that I have this day concluded
to accept the terras made me for you, by him,
to the affect of visiting the Uuited States of
America professionally, under your uspices,
the details of which are set forth in a formal
mutual agreement; and 1 eannot but express
my gratitude for the anxiety you and ycur
agent evince to render my intended tour re
plete which comfort. Trusting the specula
tion may meet your most sanguine expecta
tions, is my most ardent desire, and no endea
vors to secure which shall be wanting (God
granting me health) on the part of, sir, yours,
most respectfully,
JENNY LIND.
To P. T. barnum, Esq. Iranistan Villa,
Bridgeport, Conn. U. S.
Who is an Abolitionist? —Our neighbor
Waid has potted us for our liberality. We
think there is no great difference between us.
He sticks at terms—we regard only princi
ples. We suppose a presbyterian, or other
sectarian, may be a genuine' Christian. We
also believe a Whig, a Democrat, or Free
Soiler, may be a real abolitionist. We be
lieve there are many genuine Christians and
abolitionists in the sects and parties.
Such sectarians, and politicians, have adop
ted the wrong instrumentality, to carry out
their principles—They are deceived—and
therefore we urge them to abandon their sec
tarianism, which we say is anti-christian, and
teir parties, which we say are Anti-Liberty,
and join the Liberty Party, the only genuine
instrumentality for the abolition of slavery,
not only, but for the regenemion of society.
We eannot doubt that W. L. Garrison,
Fred. Douglass, tie., are “genuine abolition
ists,” though we say, the instrumentality
thvy adopt, is altogether deficient. And so
of many persons ot all parties. What we
want is, to deliver them from such instrumen
talities, and bring them to adopt ours.— Lib.
PayXy Paper,
Receipts
Fur the North Star, far the Week ending
February 20, 1850.
Germ Smith, Esq. donation 10,00
J. H. Lines 1,00
A. J. Barrier >2,00
Alfred Gibbs Campbell 2,00
Edwin P. Taylor 1,00
W. S. Durban 2,00
Mrs. Riddle 2,Q0
Henry Moody 2,00
William Mitchell 1,00
Otto Martin 1,00
David Harley 2,00
Rebecca M’Cormirk 2,00
Robert Miller 2,00
H. P. Y- HiS 1,00
Mary Johnson 2,00
Richard Gray don l>oo
Joseph Pound 1,00
Ephraim l,OO
Francis Van Epps 2,00
Edmund Lows id 2,00
Julius R. Ames 2,00
Young Men's Association (Albany) 2,00
BEWARE OF IMPOSITION.
The greater the value of any discovery, the high
er it is held in the esteem of the public, aad so much
in proportion is that public liable to be imposed up
on by the spurious imitations of ignorant, designing
and dishonest men, who, like the drone in the bite,
have neither the ability nor inclination to think or
pro»id* for tfcemsehrs, but thrivp and luxuriate up
on the earnings of the deserving.
The extraordinary success attending the use of
Dr. Wistar’s Balaam of Wild Cherry in diaemaes of
the hings,and the many singular cures it has effected
have naturally attracted the attention of many phy
sicians, as well as the whole fraternity of quacks—
and caused unprincipled counterfeiters and imitators
to palm off spurious mixtures, of similai namf and
appearance of the genuine Balsam. Soipe call
ed Syrup of Wild Chercy and Tar,”“Chenrv
Syiup,” Cor,q>au*d Syrup of Wild Cherry,” ‘'Wild
Cherry Comprey,” and sundry other compounds; to
which they attach a long string of “puffs.” But of
such nostrums we know t nothing. It is Wistar's
Balsam of Wild Cherry alone that performs the
cures. Let them pot deceive you. The genuiue
signed I. BUTfS.
BETH W. FOVVLE, Druggist, 138 Washing
ton street, Boston, Mass, is the sole proprietfr of
the original receipt for the manufacture of the gen
uine medicine, mid supplies both at wholesale and
retaiL m>4 of drhoan agencies' can be obtained.
For sab fay Post It Willis; also by Wm.
Pitkin.
DOCTORING IN GALENA.
Mr. Sloan.—Dear Siri About three years ago I
was severely injured in one of my legs by the foil
ing of a pile of wood which occasioned large run
ning Utears. Nearly every Doctor i« Galena tried
to cure them; but triad in vain until pom sympa
thy and improper treatment pi other teg became as
had as the oqs originally wounded. I despaired of
•T»f agaia,—hot, ia order (hat might
nogbet go dpuM within an reach J
*Cur Agent in Gelena some qfwnr
Ointment M Frieml
Galena, W/DeTSth EVAN DAVIS,
jj-g,, Agents’ naases at thejhead of Sloan's
From the Journal of Commerce
A SKETCH
I have worshipped blue eyes, and
there is no radiance so heavenly as
that which gleams from them. But
black are more bewildering; and u&en
a shadow of melancholy fails over the
forehead, it softens their beauty, while
it does not dim them.
If yoa will go with me now
to a glen in the highlands, and a wil
low-shaded nook, I will point out to
you the very spot where yesrs ago
there stood a rude bench, on which
many times I have seen the fair girl 1
now write of, sitting, and by which I
once saw her kneeling. The cottage
under the hill is occupied by strangers,
and its broad hall and large rooms now
ring to the laughter of those that knew
not her whose gentle spirit haunts their
very chambers.
She was as beautiful as a dream.
Never was holier forehead shaded by
raven tresses; never were tresses so
glorious as those. If I tell you that I
loved Sarah D you will call me
an enthusiast, and ascribe my admira
tion to my passion. I did love her, but
only as a boy worships a being very
far above him. I used to lie at her
feet on the grass, and gaze into her
face, and watch the play of her ex
quisite features. It was there I learned
first how high, and pure, and worship
ful, humanity may be.
She was young and beautiful. Whai
need to add that she was loved. Sure
ly I need not add that she loved, foi
such as she live on aifection, and di<
for lack ol it. Her father devoted hit
fortune and his life to her; and shewai
heiress to a large estate. As might b<
expected, she had numberless suiton
of every rank and variety. I canno
now remember all of them, althougl
I then kept the run of them tolerably
well. But of all, there were only tw<
that appeared to have any prospect o
success; and the village gossips wer<
occupied in discussing their relative
chances.
Frank R was the gayest, best
hearted fellow in the world, and ha<
you seen him on his horse by the sid<
of Sarah D you would have sail
he was made for her, so wild was hi
laugh, and so joyous her response. Yet
had you been behind the closed 6hutte
of the window in the front of the larg<
white house on the hill, as they rod<
by, and had you there watched th<
compressed lip, the broad, calm fore
head, the pale face and the speakinj
eye of Joseph S as he saw then
passing, you would have prayed ti
God that that fair girl might belong t<
that noble man, even as I, a boy, thei
prayed.
God lias answered my prayers
When the long way was traveled over
and the rugged and difficult steep sur
mounted—when her fairy foot wa
pressed on the rock at the summit o
the hill of life, and her eyes gazed inti
the deep blue sky with longing gaze
there, even there, beyond the blue, hi
outstretched armß received her, and hi
embrace was Heaven!
Go preach to blocks and stones, y<
who believe that love is of the clay
Go preach to the dead, ye who den'
the immortality of the affections. G<
reason with trees, or hill, or images o
wood, or with your own motionless, life
less, icy souls, ye who believe that
because there is no marrying yonder
there shall be on embracing, or be
cause we may not use the gentle wordi
r “my wife,” we may not clasp thesi
sanctified forms in our own holy arms
I tell you, man, that immortality wouh
be a glorious cheat, if with our claj
died all our first affections. 1 tell yot
that annihilation would be heaven, if
believed that when my head at lengtl
rests on its coffined pillow, and mj lipi
sink to the silence and repose of death
these loving eyes will never look int<
mine again, this pure clasp never b<
around my neck, this holy caress nevei
bless me more!
But see how I hasten in advance o
my story. And yet, like Canning
knife-grinder, I remember now that 1
have no story to tell, or at best it is a
simple history.
She loved Joe. His calm and ear
nest way of loving her, won her whole
soul. He did not say much to her in
company, nor of her, but when they
were alone, or only some of the chil
dren near, his low voice would be musi
cal, and she sal entranced with its
eloquence. I have seen them seated
on the bench by the side of the stream,
and have heard him lead her gentle
soul step by step with him from earth
to stars, and then from star to star, un
til she seemed to be in heaven with him,
and listening to the praises of the
angels.
1 am unable to tell you how it hap
pened that Joseph S—- left his pro
fession, (which had been law,) and
entered the ministry, nor am I able to
state, though I might guess at, the
causes operating in his own mind. The
father of Sarah D was not a re
ligious man, and, I am sorry to say,
was one of a small class of men, who
not only deny the truths of our most
holy creed, but take every opportunity
to cast ridiqule on its teachers, it was,
therefore, with great pain that his
daughter observed his coldness and
rudeness to Joseph S and she was
not surprised, however much she was
grieved, when an open rupture ren
dered the suspension of his visits at
the house absolutely necessary.
They had never spoken of love.
Each knew the secret of the other’s
affection, and what need then of words
to tell it? It would have been but the
repetition of hackneyed phrases. And
yet there is no music in| the world so
sweet as those three words, “I love
you,” from the lips we love to kiss.
But the father of our gentle friend had
feared the existence of some bond be
tween them, and peremptorily required!
his daughter to break it if it did exist.
She replied to him, relating the sim
ple truth, and he desired her to refute
thenceforward to ace or speak to
Joseph.
A month of deeper pain than can
well be imagined succeeded this com
mand, during which they did not meet.
It was on a moony night in August
that rite walked out with me, (then a
boy three jeers her junior) and sat
down on the bench by the side of the
stream. The air was clear, the sky
serene, and no sound disturbed us; but
the soft voice of the wind among the
tree-tops made a pleasant music, and
we listened and were silent. The still
ness was broken by the voice of Joseph
You will pardon me if I pass over
that scene. I dare not attempt a des
cription of it. It was my fiist lesson
in human suffering, and though I have
learned it over and over since then,
though the iron has entered my own
soul and seared and scarred it, yet I
have never seen, nor do I believe I
have ever felt, more agony than those
two felt as they parted that night to
meet no more on earth.
He bowed his lips to her forehead,
and murmured the solemn word ‘For
ever.’ She woke at that word, and
exclaimed with startling vehemence,
‘No, no, there is no such word, Joe.’
‘We shall not meet aaain on earth,
my gentle one. ‘And what is earth?’
Her tall form grew more queenly, and
her dark eye flashed devinely, as she
rose and exclaimed, in clear and sil
very tones: ‘And what is earth? These
things must end. I will name a tryst,
dear Joe, and you shall keep it.' II
you pass first into the other land, wail
for me on the bank, and if I go hence
before yon, I will linger on the othei
shore until you come. Will you re
member?’
‘I will live and die in this memory.
She lifted her face to his, and hei
arms to his neck, and they clung to
gether in a long and passionate em
brace. Their lips did not separate,
but were pressed close together, until
he felt her form cold, and her clasp re
laxed, and he laid her gently down or
the old seat, bowed over her a momenl
in prayer, and was gone. I heard hiit
9ay, ‘take care of her W and sc
I strove to recall the life that had gone
from her lips and cheeks and eyes. I
came slowly, and she woke as we wake
in the morning after death has enterec
our charmed circle, with an oppressiof
on the brain, and a swimming, swollei
senselessness of soul.’
At length she remembered all; anc
I raised herself with a half-articulatec
exclamation of agony, broken by a
I sob; then fell on her knees by the
bench and buried her face in her hands
and remained thus for nearly half ar
1 hour.
When she arose, her face was a:
the face of an angel. It wore thai
same exalted look until she died.
I-think she took cold that night, she
was never well afterward, and the nexi
J winter she passed at the south, return
ing in the spring very fragile, but ver)
beautiful.
Joseph S tvas sent abroad b)
one of the Boards of Missions of the
Church, but his health failed, and he
resigned his commission, while he trav
eled through the Eastern world.
Three years fled with their usua
p swiftness. To Sarah D the)
wer* very slqw and painful years, yel
she w’as happy in her qniet way, anc
no one dreamed of the strange trysl
she was longing to keep on the othei
side of that dark river, w hich men sc
shrink from. She grew feebler daily
j as the summer and autumn advanced,
and in December she was evidentl)
dying.
One day her mother had been out ol
the bouse, perhaps making calls; she
returned at evening, and among othei
incidents of news which she had learn
ed, she mentioned to Sarah the death
of her old friend Joseph S
The fair girl was reclining in her
large arm chair, looking out through
the closed windows at the snow on the
ground, and the pure moonlight which
silvered it. There was no startling
emotion visible as her mother mentioned
the fact which to her was the most
solemn, yet most joyful news the world
could give; for now, how much nearer
was their meeting! I saw a smile flash
across her lace as the joyful news
reached her ear. I saw her forehead
raised to feel the caress which I know
she felt! She was silent for many
minutes, and then spoke in feeble, yet
very musical accents, and I, boyishly,
wept aloud! Then she smiled, and
looked at me|with finger upraised, and
said, “Wait a little while longer, dear
W And then, after a moment,
she said, “Mother, is the snow very
deep?”
“Not very, dear; why did you ask?”
“Because if it were deep, I thought it
would be difficult for old Mr. Smith to
And our lot in the grave-yard. Are all
the head-stones covered, mother?”
“What is the matter, Sarah? What
if they are covered
“Mother, dear, it is useless to con
ceal it from ourselves, or from one
other. You know, and I quite as well,
that I am dying. I have not wished to
live, only for oue thing I did long for
life, and I dreaded to meet death all
alone! bnt now I shall not. W
will tell you what 1 mean when I am
gone. Yes, gone, dear mother. 1
shall not be here any longer. This
chair will stand here, and I not be any
where near it.—You will be here, and
father, and you will rise and walk about,
and visit, and go in and out, and sleep
and wake again, and so on day after
day, and I shall have no part any long
er in your cares and joys;—Dear Mo
ther”—and as she uttered the last two
words, she put her arms around her
mother’s neck and kissed her fondly,
and sank back into her chair again. I
sat at her feet watching her matchless
features.—A smile was flitting across
them, now there, now gone, yet each
time it appeared, it lingered longer
than before, until it became fixed, and
so holy, so very holv, that I grew be
wildered as I gazed, and a strange
tremor passed through my body.
The breath of peace was fanning her
glorious brow! Her head was bowed
a very little forward, and a tress escap
ing from its bonds, fell by the side ot
her pure white temple, and close to her
just opened lips. It hung there motion
less! No breath disturbed its repose!,
She slept as an angel might sleep, hav
ing accomplished the mission of her
God.
Electric Telegraphs ho Novelty.
—Mr. Weld, the secretary of the
Royal Society, write# as follows to the
dth t rut am You are aware that with
to the application of the elec
trict telegraph, there have been dis
pute* as to priority of invention on the
part of the discoverers. Under these
circumstances, I conceive that the
following interesting statement, taken
trom Arthur Young’s “Travels in
France,” published in 1792, will be
read by those to whom it is new with
some surprise. The author records
that he spent the evening of the 16th
of September 1787, in the company ol
a M. Lomond, whom he describes as
being a very ingenious and inventive
mechanic, who had made improve
ments in machinery for spinning cot
ton. He then proceeds:—“ln electri
city he has made a remarkable discov
ery. You write two or three words on
a paper; be takes it with him into a
room, and turns a machine enclosed in
a cylindrical case, at the top' of which
s |an electrometer, a small line pith
ball; a wire connects with a similai
cylinder and electrometer in a distant
apartment, and his wife, by remark
ing the corresponding motions of th e
ball, writes down the words they indi.
cate —from which it appears he has
formed an al} habet of motions. As the
length of the wire makes no difference
in the effect, a correspondence might
be carried on at any distance—within
and without a besieged town, for in
stance; or, for. purposes much more
worthy, and a thousand times more
harmless, between two lovers prohibi
ted or prevented from any better con
nection. Whatever the use may be,
the invention is beautiful.” Young
adds, that M. Lomond “has made many
other curious machines, all the entire
work of his own hands. Mechanical
invention seems to be in him a natural
propensity.”—Somerset House, Oct.
17.
CURIOSITIES OF FOOD.
What do men really live upon? The
answer will be various enough. The
Guacho, who in the wild pampas of
Buenos Ayres, managing his half-wild
horse with incredible dexterity, throws
the lasso or|bolas to catch the ostrich
the Guanaco, or wild bull, consumes
daily from ten to twelve pounds of meat
and regards it as a highest feast day,
when in any hacienda he gains a varie
ty in the shape of a morsel of pumpkin.
The word bread does not exist in his
vocabulary.
The Irishman, on the other hand,
regales himself in careless mirth, on his
“potatoes and point,” after a day ol
painful labor, he who cannot help mak
ing a joke even of the name he gives to
his scanty meal. Meat is a strange
idea to him, and he is happy indeed if
four times a year he can add a herring
to season the mealy tubers.
The hunter of the prairies lays low
the buffalo with sure bullet: and Us
juicy, fat streaked rump, roasted be
tween two hot stones, is to him the
greatest ot delicacies. Meanwhile the
industrious Chinese carries to market
his carefully fattened rats delicately
arranged upon white sticks, certain to
find a good customer among the epi
cures of Pekin; and in his hot, smok)
hut, fast burned beneath the snow and
ice, the Greenlander consumes his fat,
I which he has just carved, rejoicing ovei
bis costly prize, from a stranded whale
Here the black sucks his sugar-cane,
and eats his banana; there the African
merchant fills his wallet with sweel
dates, his sole sustenance in the long
J desert journey; and there the Siamese
crams himself with a quantity of rice
ifrom which an £uropean would shrink
appalled, and whomsoever over the
whole inhabited earth we approach and
demand hospitality, in almost ever)
little spot a different kind of food if
set before us, and the “daily bread,’
offered in another form.
The bHtck broth of the Spastans was
a famous dish, but like Dionysius, wt
are not such Spartans. The Dutchmar
can eat with great zest his sour fer
mented cabbage, and the Scotch High
lander his braxy sheep. The Esqui
maux can eat oil soup, and what not.
'and there are various tribes of Indian:
that live spon a certain kind of clay,
,The old Angels lived upon acorns and
pork, the modern Angels upon coffee
and beef. The food that is suitable
to one people may not be to another:
and climate makes a great difference
in the different kinds of food that should
be eaten. What inhabitant of the tor
rid zone could live with impunity upon
blubber, as the inhabitant of the frigid
zone can 3
Nature allows the appetite to decide
for itself, as the conscience checks or
approves good or evil acts. These
promptings may, no doubt, be destroy
ed by resisting its primitive teaching,
but still it is a monitor, and no even
rule of a certain kind of diet can ba
prescribed that will answer equally for
every, person. More physical evils
arise from gorging the stomach than
from any certain kind of food. Mod
erate eating and plenty of exercise in
the open air, are a sure remedy for
many diseases, and certainly a greater
preventive of than remedy for disease.
There is a large tribe of Indians in
New Mexico, who live on a sort of
grass-hopper, or wingless locust, which
they dry, pulverize, and knead into a
kind of cake, which they bake, and
which is not bad eating. The wild
horses which traverse the plains of
California and New Mexico in vast
troops—the descendants of the war
horse introduced by the Spanish dis
coverers and conquerors—are becom
ing mere highly prized and sought out.
By some they are used as food. The
early settlers of Oregon fed on their
flesh, and found it quite palatable and
nourishing; they called it “Columbia
beef. Spirit of the Age.
A Curious Optical Illusion.—On
a warm day be sure to drink as much
stout as seemsth necessary to quench
yonr thirst, and therefore take your
bottle of wine, to which a bowl of cold
whisky punch may bo added towards
evening. You shall now see, on com
ing home, the key hole of your bouse
dancing before you in strange w*ys,
the like whereof is very diverting, and
presented a curious puzzle tor the
latch key •Punch. -w]
Anti-Slavksv is to triumph, not by foree
or appeals to ialereat, but by becoming a liv
ing pan of the public conscience and religion.
Juatin pppiftiiou aait is oemplieated with
political questions sod fseliags it is shorn of
it# strength,— C banning
