THE SLAVERY AGITjAn,
country has been aax
toward tlte seat of
six months. The agitation
mrmtion to slavery has, during that
Bk pHfcjtL been painfully felt in every sec-
Kjc ftan BBhe Republic. That agitation
Hfs given rise to many apprehensions
and fears, and so much denunciation,
that every one must have felt much so
licitude as to its termination. The
perseverance of the men of one portion
of the Confederacy, in urging the ap
plication of the Jefferson Proviso to
bills relating to the territories ac
from Mexico, and the threats of
M from the opposite portion of
ucv in the event of the
■Ltiiat IV-via., se*■ 111•:ii at
th<- Union in
j,. B 1
pi
-pi
t it- prospect ol a
w rutnl'ul thundeis, is
fearful than it was at the be-
HEfig of the present session of Con
At the beginning ol the session, it
was assumed that the adjustment of
the great difficulty was impracticable,
and a dissolution of our happy confed
eracy was predicted with the most un
doubting confidence. It has since been
discovered that there is no necessity
compelling a dissolution of the Union,
and men have looked forward wilh
much hope to several different proposi
tions, for the pacific settlement of the
momentous question w hich has rocked
the country to its very centre.
The contagion of fear and of dis
union seized on the Legislatures of
several States, and they proceeded to
declare their grievances intolerable,
and their unchangeable determination
to encounter all the perils of disunion,
unless tbe people of the Northern
States should speedily withdraw their
countenance from those men who seem
ed bent on pushing matters to a crisis.
The Legislatures of Mississippi, Ala
bama, South Carolina, Georgia, and
Virginia, resolved that dissolution was
necessary, unless the men of the North
should cease from troubling them and
their darling “institution.” The heav
ens grew black and angry with clouds,
and the weather-wise prophesied a pro
digious tempest. But the tempest has
not yet reached us, and there is now
but little expectation that its des dating
energies will be down upon us.
The reaction in ihe Southern States
has been most marked. Four months
ago the project of a Southern Conven
tion at Nashville seemed to be emi
nently agreeable to the people generally
in the South. As the period desig
nated for the meeting of the delegates
4om the Southern States approaches,
ie project of a Convention is less and
less favored. Indeed, into such disre
pute has Ihe project fallen, that it is
seriously questioned whether a South
ern Convention will be held. It has
been very generally abandoned by all
those who have hearts sufficiently
large to love the whole Union; and il
any meeting take place, it is pretty cer
tain that it will be composed of disaf
fected persons only, of men who are
weary of the Confederacy as it is—ol
men who are anxious for a breaking
asunder of the bands of our National
Union. At any rate, whether the. Con
vention shall be attended by a few per
sons or by many, its power to do evil
will not be alarming, for the people in
all the States, with the exception o
those residing in Mississippi and South
Carolina, are hostile to the meeting,
and will indignantly reject any scheme
that may be nurtured in it and pro
posed for tbeir adoption.
The advocates of the Nashville Con
vention, who were in favor of pushing
matters to the verge of disunion, hav<
been taught that the people dearlj
love the Union, and will ding to it.—
The manses will suffer many griev
ances before they will seek relief ii
disunion. Oa||nghly esteemed ant
patriotic Gevetror Chittenden nevei
uttered a truer sentiment than when ht
declared that disunion odd never hi
VOL. 111. NO. 27.
admitted to be a remedy for any politi
cal evils, but that, on the contrary, it
would certainly be in itself the consum
mation of all evils. Our great and in
fluential statesman, Henry Clay, too,
is right, we think, in supposing that
disunion would of necessity b*3 fol
lowed by civil wars, long fad wasteful.
Ha who would prefer aivil wars, With
their endless and black catalogues of
crimes, to tbe continuance of even so
dread a scourge as African Slavery,
cannot be considered either as a pru
dent or a wise counsellor. Slavery
should not be abolished by the sword,
even if it were practicable to abolish it
in that way. The only kind of eman
cipation which is truly desirable, is
that which may be brought about by
the will of the people among whom the
institution exists. That there are some
men whose hatred of slavery has be
come so intense, and so insane, as to
induce them to desire disunion, and the
civil wars that would follow disunion,
as means for the abolition of slavery,
is a melancholy truth. Such men have
permitted their zeal to destroy their
judgment. To prostrate one evil, they
would inflict a hundred evils on the
country, or rather, in a blind fury
HUgst one great evil, which is not
by force of arms, they would
scourges on the country to an
unendurable height. We have no af
fection, although much pity, for those
then of blood who would unsheathe the
sword against slaveholders. The abo
lition of slavery is not desirable on
such terms; for the slaves, if emanci
pated against the will of the people
generally,would not occupy a more ad
vantageous position than they now do.
We most ardently desire emancipation,
but only on the condition that, when it
does occur, it shall be unaccompanied
with evils worse than slavery itself.—
When the people concur generally in
the wish to have the slaves liberated,
then, and then only, will the proper
steps be taken to secure to the emanci
pated the blessings of liberty. We
have no very exalted appreciation of
that species of liberty which is merely
nominal, while thorough, genuine, soul
invigorating freedom commands our
highest reverence.
But to return. We are extremely
glad that the people of the South have
rejected the project of disappointed
ambition, who have sought to seduce
theisfJftMißgteir fidoiity-tu Union.—
The common glory of the irehion, and
which is of far greater moment, ihe
common welfare of the people of all
sections, require that the Union of
these States shall be preserved. There
is not an interest of any kind—com
mercial, agricultural, social, moral,
mental, or religious—that would not
be injuriously affected by disunion.—
Thus believing, the rejection of the
project of a Sothern Convention by an
overwhelming majority of the people,
has filled our hearts with unspeakable
joy. We have everything to hope for
in union—everything to fear in dis
union.
The question which all men are nowi
anxious to have answered, relates to;
the probability of the adoption of Mr.
Clay’s compromise measures. In the
present condition of things, that is pre
cisely the question which it is impossi
ble to answer. If Mr. Clay’s plan is
adopted, what will be its effect on the
slavery institution?
That plan proposes the admission of
California, with its anti-slavery Consti
tution, the framing of territorial gov
ernments for Utah and New Mexico,
in which no reference is to be made to
slavery, leaving the question of its in
troduction or exclusion to .the people
when they shall come to form State
governments, the quieting of the claim
of Texas to any portion of New Mex
ico, the abolition of the slave traffic in j
the District of Columbia, and the pas
sage of a bill the more effectually to
guard the claim of the slaveholder to
his fugitive slave. Would slavery be
established in Utah and New Mexico if
the compromise were adopted? We*
agree with Mr. Clay in the opinion that
it cannot be established in either of
those territories. There are already
nearly enough people in New Mexico
to warrant them to call a convention to
frame a State Constitution, and they
I are known to be opposed to the intro
duction of slavery. The immigration
of slaveholders into that territory must
be far larger than any one believes it
could be, under any circumstances, to
insure the adoption of slavery there.—
So also the present population of Utah
is hostile to the introduction of slavery,
and there are no inducements offered
there to tempt slaveholders thither.—
i Whenever conventions are called to
frame State Constitutions in Utah and
New Mexico, we feel very certain that
slavery will be excluded from these
territories.
If Mr. Clay’s plan is rejected, we
think the plan proposed by tbe Presi
dent will be adopted. That plan pro
poses the admission of California with
her present boundaries and constitu
tion, leaving Utah and New Mexico to
come into the Union whenever their
people desire to come in, with or with
out the incumbrance of tlavery. If
the President’s plan is adopted, we
feel very confident that the institution
of slavery will never be permitted to
infest and destroy the best interests of
the people who reside, or who may
hereafter reside in any portion of the
territories acquired by treaty from
Mexico.
Whatever may be adopted, we ear
nestly hope that the egrae of slavery
shall not be extended beyond its pres
ent limits. If national legislation is
necessary to restrict the curse within
RIGHT IS OF HO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR;
the limits it now blights, we hope such
legislation may be had.
There is another subject to which
we wish to call the attention of our
friends, aud that is the enterprise of
the slavery men in relation to the es
tablishment of a slavery organ in the
city pf Washington.
Year alter year, live slavery men
persisting in declaring that they would
not discuss the merits of the peculiar
institution in Congress. They assu
med that Congress had no business
under the constitution to say one word
on the subject of slavery; and they
tried to frown down all efforts to in
duce Congress to talk of a subject over
which it could not exert any practical
influence. They felt a lofty scorn for
all tflpse zealous men who persisted in
looking into the subject of slavery, and
treated their arguments with thorough
contempt. Gradually, however, in
the flight of years, they, relaxed the
iron rigor they had prescribed, and
condescended to vindicate the institu
tions of the South. The ice once bro
ken, a perfect inundation of pro-sla
very eloquence has taken place. De
clamation has become fiery, and logic
has grown pathetic in portraying the
beauties and benefits and glories of the
patriarchal system as it exists in the
Southern States. And now, to crown
the matter, a newspaper is to be estab
lished for the very object of promulga
ting slavery logic! Is there no pro
gress here?
Sixty-three Senators and Represen
tatives from the slßveholding States,
have signed an address setting forth
the necessity of a slavery organ in
Washington; and the necessary steps
have, we suppose, been taken to get
the project into operation. Henceforth,
then, be it remembered, that anti-sla
very logic is not contraband, and dis
cussion of the merits of slavery in sanc
tioned by the leaders of the slavery
men!
We are pleased with the enterprise.
If the slavery folk vindicate slavery,
will they have the audacity to deny to
those who righteously detest the sys
tem, the right to express their opinions
freely and fully? And if discussion
become the order of the day in the
slave States, how long will it be be
fore the circumvallatiou which has
been thrown up to guard the institution
'will be cast down, and the light of
truth and the voice of reform enter?
El!wood Fisher is designated as the
editor of Umb slavery organ. Such se
lection please* us very much. We
know Fisher thoroughly. He is a
keen, shrewd, subtle, unscrupulous lo
gician, who, in his extravagant pre
sumption, is in the habit of advancing
the most ultra and absurd propositions
w ith a view of displaying his power in
maintaining them Ifwe mi stake not,
he will undertake to prove by far too
much. He will certainly try to make
it appear that there can be no earthly
good independent of slavery. He
will prove as far as he can that the
cause of religion, virtue, and educa
tion, require the presence of slavery,
I and will fiercely sustain the proposi
tion that no peqple can be prosperous
unless they rely on negro labor. He
will go so far that but few of the most
adventurous slavery tnen will dare to
follow him, and in disgusting the mod
erate pro-slavery people, and in bring
ing contempt on the system, he will
do very essential service, very blindly,
it is true, to the glorious cause of hu
man freedom. We sincerely hope
that the Southern organ may go into
effect, and that Fisher may have con
trol of it. In that event, the friends
of freedom and humanity will have
abundant cause for thankfulness.
EXTRACTS
From three several letters, dated re
spectively at Monrovia on the 22d of
April:
“We are certainly going ahead. The
British traders, after much grumbling,
have at length come to terms. This is
owing te the ready achnowledgment by
their Government of our claim's and
rights. These traders are now per
mitted only to trade at ports of entry.
This greatly increases our revenue,
and throws all the native commerce in
to our hands. Times are pretty brisk
here just uow, and all are elated.”
“I am at last out of the wqpds, and
am living in Kentucky, which begins
at Brumley’s, and runs up to the large
branch about two miles this side of
Millsburg. It is now becoming a
thriving settlement. I bought 190
acres and drew ten, and am now living
in my new brick house, 37 feet by 37,
and two stories high. I have around
tne, although I have been here but four
months, a very fine sugar cane and
ginger crop.”
“I am doubly burdened with busi
ness this year. In addition to my
commercial engagements I am increas
ing my agricultural operations, having
moved upon my farm. I have also to
lay out the new town (Fishtown) at
the cove or point, before the rains set
in too strong. I wish also to erect fif
teen or twenty houses there for emi
grants.”
Prying. —Don’t pry into the secret
affairs of others, it is none of your
business how your neighbor gets along
and what his income or expectations
may be, unless his arrangements af
fect you. What right have you to say
a word and protrude your advice? It
is no mark of good advice, good breed
ing, or good manners, to pry into the
affairs of others. Remember this.—;
fVtstrm Christian
ROCHESTER. N. Y., THURSDAY, JUNE 27. 1850.
From the Peace Advocate.
FRANCE AND ENGLAND.
National Dignity and Honor.
All on a sudden a little cloud, which at
first appeared no bigger than a man’s
hand, has overspreSiJ the sky, and
fitted the political atmosphere throogii,
which we look towards oar souiewhaU
restless and versatile, although as* we
had hoped, very good and well-dis
posed neighbors, the French. A de
mand upon a petty state for some dis
puted money payments, too long de
ferred for the patience of the powerful
creditor, which demand we are free to
admit, might have been urged in some
what too rude and imperious a fashion,
has led to what seems a serious mis
understanding between the govern
ments of the two countries, whose be9t
interests involved in the preservation
of amicable relations with each other.
We hope and believe, —notwithstand-
ing the manifestations of applause with
which the statement of the French
Foreign Minister, of the recall of their
Ambassador, was received by the
Ministerial party in the Chamber of
Deputies,—that before what we are
now writing appears in print, this mat
ter, so trifling in its origin, will be
satisfactorily airanged. If, however,
it should lead to a war between the
two countries, future historians will
have no difficulty in assigning the
blame and the sin of so deplorable a
calamity to the right persons. To s«y
that it is in itself a sufficient casus belli
is perfectly ridiculous. The amount
of indemity which we have forced the
Greek government to pay, is, it ap
pears, considerably less than that
named by the French arbitrators; but
then we did not wait sufficiently long
for the award to be given, and herein
lies the blame and the offence; and it
ought, as we think, to be at once ac
knowledged by our Foreign Secreta
ry, and the Cabinet which he repre
sents, that we were wrong in acting
thus prematurely; it was an act ol;
great discourtesy, to say the least of
it, having accepted the offered media
tion—for offered we believe it was—of
the government ofFrance, to proceed
in so summary a way, and threaten
the refractory Greeks with that heavy
chastisement, the bombardment of their
capital, if they did not at once comply
with our demands. It was very pro
voking, no doubt, to the Foreign Sec
retary to harve Alrthis disputing abt®t
the items of a long standing debt,
which he believed himself perfectly
justified in demanding—very prqvok
ing and tantalizing, with a fleet in the
Piraeus, a few broadsides from which
would very quickly bring these trouble
some Greeks to their senses, to be thus
put off and played with, as it were. It
scarcely comported with “national dig
nity” to be placed in such a position,
much less to remain long in it. But
then, it may be inquired, how came we
there at all? We had an uudoubted
right to ask for a settlement of the ac
count, nay, to demand that it should be
paid without longer delay; but not to
bully and bluster, because we were
met by shifts and evasions, snd to draw
the attention of all Europe upon us, by
a mode of procudure so unworthy of a
great and powerful nation. This mat
ter should, in the first instance, have
been referred to a third power for arbi
tration, and there left; its immediate
settlement was not of so great conse
quence, as to call for the blockade of
the Greek ports, the seizure of ship
ping, the stoppage of commerce, much
less the threat of bombardment, the
carrying into effect of which would
have inflicted mischief and
misery upon the unoffending people,
with whose government we were at
issue, and very likely have involved us
in a war with one or more of the great
er European powers, who might have
felt, or feigned themselves, aggrieved
by such a proceeding: as it is, sufficient
has arisen out of our impetuous and
impolitic conduct to justify serious
alarm for the peace of Europe. The
French ministry and their supporters,
are, or pretend to be, quite in a fer
ment about the matter, and the great
fear is that occasion may be taken to
provoke a war with this country, m
order td divert the attention of (he
people at home, from their own un
popular acts, and thus prevent, or at
least postpone, the political explosion
which seems imminent and inevitable.
Then we have the Times talking
loudly about Russia, and almost hound
ing on that power to demand satisfac
tion at the hands of our government,
for the insult and injury inflicted on
Greece, of which the mighty autocrat
is to be considered, it seems, as some
sort the ally and protector. Lord Pal
merston, wj know, is no favorite with
the Times, and we think that the tone
assumed by this influential yet unprin
cipled journal on the present occasion,
may very fairly be attributed to the ill
odour of tho Foreign Secretary’s name
in printing-house square. We would
not judge harshly, but this is the con
slusion to which we are driven by the
tenor of the remarks which have lately
appeared in Ihe Times. We ourselves
think, that on this, as on several former
occasions, Lord Palmerston has shown,
to say the least, great want of discre
tion; able a diplomatist as he undoubt
edly is, it cannot be denied that the
Peace of Europe has been mere than
once put by him into great jeopardy.
Calm and indeed, should
that roan be, who undertakes to regu
late the foreign relations of a country,
especially one like ours, upon which
other governments have so much rea
son to look with distrust and jealousy.
Amid the tortuous ways which lead
GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
through the labyrinth of diplomacy, he
must be a keen-sighted, a clear-head
ed, we had almost said a passionless
man, who can walk without arousing
Rational jealousies, offending national
Prejudices, and falling into the bottom
less pits of old quarrels and hatreds, or
entangled in the thorny thickets
TO dp pressing interests and sinister de
signs. WheVe shall we look for such
a man r and what shall we say of the
age, and of the state of political morali
ty, which requires such lynx eyed vigi
lance, and excessive cautiou, in those
who undertake to manage the foreign
policy of nations? Every now and then
the people of this, or of that country,
are informed that they are on the brink
of a war with their neighbors across
the river, or the mountains, or the sea,
as the case may be, and thus rudely
awakened from their pleasant dream
of peace and security, they rub their
eyes, and ask what it all means? and
then comes out a long rigmarole about
their Foreign Secretary, or their Am
bassador, having made a mistake, or
said or done something disrespectful
to the representative of the nation
against which war is to be declared,
or which is about to declare war against
them, and aheap of papers are "laid
on the table,” of their legislative as
sembly, which they cannot read, and
if they could, would not be able to un
derstand in the least. And when they
ask, in all the innocence of simplicity,
why the matter cannot be explained,
and mutual apologies made, ana thus
peaceably settled, they are met with
the reply, "Oh! our National Dignity,
our National Honor, must be support
ed! We cannot explain, retract, or
apologise; at least not until after we
have expended blood and treasure in
the quarrel, and done our neighbors
—it may be our very good customers
—all the mischief we can; then it will
be quite consistent with our National
Dignity and Honor, to take friendly
counsel togethor, or to call in a third
party who shall make a satisfactory
arrangement of the matter.” And the
poor bewildered, suffering people,
cannot for the life of them understand
why this could not as well, and better,
be done first as last; but such is the
custom of civilized Christendom! Alas!
alas! for the common sense, and the
religious convictions of a people, be
wildered and perplexed by this diplo
matic jargon—this Shibboleth of "Na
tional Dignity and Honor.” With
ships in the Tagus, and the Darda
nelles, and the Canton river, on the
coast of Borneo, and one knows not
where else, ready to do the bidding of
Consul or Ambassador, who may fancy
himself and his nation wronged, or in
sulted, or aggrieved in any way, the
great wonder is, not that we are so
seldom at war, but that we are ever at
Peace.
TIIE WIFE OF KOSSUTH.
At the time when all was lost to the
Hungarians, and each had to seek his
own safety in flight, Governor Kossuth
and his lady, who had accompanied
her husband throughout the war,
thought it best to separate, in order
that one of them, if possible, might
save their lives, for the sake of their
children, who had been left under the
protection of their grandmother. The
Governor determined to remain with
his brave officers, still with him, and
to share their fate. Madam K. in
formed her husband and a female
friend, the wife of an officer, where she
would endeavor to seek safety; and
as every moment was precious, this
delicate lady clothed herself as a beg
gar; her husband gave her his signet
ring, and the seal of the government of
Hungary, that these might be a pass
port for her, in the event of her meet
ing with those who were friendly to
their cause. Without any clothes, ex
cept those on her back, she com
menced her sad and fatiguing journey
on foot. She traveled long, experien
cing all kinds of hardships, privations,
and dangers. When stopped by the
Austrian guards, she feigned extreme
old age, and said she was in search of
a little grandson who had got lost in
the war; so they let her pass, little
knowing the value of the prize they
had ir. their bloody hands!
Thus she. continued on, until she
reached an extensive pasture country,
uninhabited, except by herdsmen, al
most as void of intellect as the herds
they guarded: here she sought and
found a resting place. These poor
serfs made her a fresh bed of straw,
covered her with their cleanest sheep
skins, and fed her with their brown
bread; and here she remained three
months, during which time the winter
cold came on, and having but little cov
ering, you may easily conceive how
intensely she must have suffered.
Gov. Kossuth had sent for his children
that he might take leave of them, and
give them his last blessing; they were
brought to him by his mother, and
again taken to their home. The Aus
trian executioner (Haynau) had long
since commenced his bloody work.
Kossuth, and those with him, fled to
wards the Turkish frontier to the for
tress of Widden. We cannot enu
merate all the sufferings, losses, and
anguish experienced by these unfortu
nate men during tbeir flight; most of
them, however, reached Widden.
They were no sooner there, thap their
first thoughts were of Madam Kossuth,
and her friend, the wife of the officer
to whom she had communicated the
place of her intended concealment, de
termined to seek and find her, if she
was still alive. She sat out on her
wear/ journey, habited in a similar
WHOLE NO. 181.
guise, as that of Madam Kossuth—as
a beggar—and thus she passed the sol
diers and guards of the enemy, until
she reached the hiding place of her
friend, who bad been the companion
of her youth in happier days, and now
they were to encounter new dangers.
The herdsmen built them a little cart,
awjgave them a hofee, as Madam
IpuHKu., hr xoxipty, priva
tions and sufferings, wasnoiongerftbre
to walk. The roads had now became
almost impassable, narrow and slippe
ry on the sides of the mountains; one
false step would have plunged them
down into an almost bottomless abyss;
but with the gallows in their rear, and
their husbands before them, hope gave
them courage, and onward they went.
We know not what length of time they
occupied in their journey; but, as it
was in winter, and they had often to
conceal themselves in clefts of rocks
and overhanging mountains, from the
scouts of the enemy, it must have been
a long and weary one, and, when dis
covered, they passed for beggars, and
asked for bread from their blood thirsty
foes. Tiiey ultimately reached the
town of Belgrade, where they expect
ed to find their husbands, and a ter
mination of their sufferings. Imagine,
then, their feelings of disappointment,
when they learned that not a Hunga
rian was there—all had been removed
to Shumla. What was now to be done
They were worn out, and could pro
ceed no farther. Hope even had for
saken them. No husbands to embrace,
no friends to welcome them. They
decided to throw themselves upon the
humanity of the Sardinian Consul.
They knocked at his door, which was
opened by the Consul himself Two
beggar women stood before him, the
pictures of misery and woe. He ask
ed them what they wanted. They an
swered "food and shelter.” He re
quested them to come in. Then the
officer’s lady introduced him to Madam
Kotsuth, wife of the President of
Hungary. He could not believe it
until she took from her bosom the sig
net ring and seal of government of
Hungary. What followed can easily
be conjectured; they were received
according to their rank by the kind
hearted Consul; and after they were
sufficiently rested, he made known
their case to the Prince of Seryia, who
sent them his carriage-and-four, with
an eswort. to take them to Shumla.
The weather was terribly cold, and
the roads as bad as they could be, but
they ultimately arrived in safety.—Bos
ton Transcript.
From the N. Y. Tribune.
THURSDAY IN CONGRESS WEB
STER, CLAY, SEWARD, DUER,
lOWA, &c.
Washington, Thurs. June 13.
We had a grand opening in the
Senate this morning. First, Mr. Web
ster, in his earnest, massive manner,
argued against striking out the Texas
section of the bill, embracing the set
ment of the Boundary, compensation
to Texas for surrendering her claim to
New-Mexico, Btc. Sic. He was grave,
deliberate, impressive, fercible —as
indeed he never fails to be.
Gov. Seward followed in reply. He
opposed the amendmant on many
grounds, but mainly because of this
determined opposition to every part of
the bill. He would vote to kill the bill
as a whole, and to kill it in detajl—to
decapitate it or take it joint from joint.
He considered this bill the great obsta
cle to action on the part of Congress—
that it had already delayed the public
business by months, and was still ob
structing and preventing legislation
pressingly needed by the country.
Let this aggregation of incongruous
measures be withdrawn, let the several
subjects included therein be taken up
separately and acted on, and Congress
might promptly and beneficently per
form its duty to the country.
Mr. Clay sprung up as Gov. S.
concluded. The Senator from New-
York charges the friends of this bill
with obstructing the progress of public
business. 1 am amazed at this charge.
We, the majority of the Senate, ob
structing business? Have we pot
steadily and earnestly pressed forward
Have we not been uniformly anxious
to bring these embarrassing contro
versies to a decision And have we not
been steadily resisted and impeded by
the Senator from New-York and those
who act with him? Have they not sus
tained every proposition for delay
Did they not waste weeks in opposing
the very appointment of the Committee
of Conciliation But for this resistance
of the minority, we might have had this
measure before us two months earlier
than it was presented. Have they not
fought us in this spirit at every subse
quent step? Did they not propose to
lay the matter over for a week after
the death of Mr. Chalhoun? And have
we not just seen days wasted by them
on a motion for indefinite postponement,
which was withrawn as soon as the
Senate was ready to vote upon it? Wc
of the majority press fur action, pro-
S ;ress, decision; the other side has
ought for delay, inaction postpone
ment. Yet we are accused of obstruct
ing the action of Congress! I repel
the charge with indignation!
Gen. Foote of Miss, next hobbled
up, and threw his grotesque little per
son into all manner of unseemly con
tortions, while he endeavored to ex
press bis inexpressible indignation and
amazement at Gov. Sewaro’s inpiita
tion on the friends ot the bill. He beat
out two or three of Mr. Clay’s sugges
tions very thin, and made of them a
speech quite respectable—in length.
B M bwn getting up
rather high tor Inst hour, and it win
well to rcplep/igh the boilers by a sold
injection, even of sap 4 I think the
Genera'. s speech goo d.
Seward very briefly and caJm
y r »jou»ed. Ha bad intended to say
0r to intimate only that this exiraqxdt
nary eombinatiaw of discordant, mea
surea in one bill had inevitably delayed
and prevented action on ihe part «f
Congress, U iul to that he adbeiwd.
Senators were required by this*" bill" to
vote for or against measures they ap
proved in combination with measures
they utterly detested—measures they
were even instructed to support unsted
to measures they were instructed to re
sist. If was this violation of all pre
cedent and the obvious maxims of
sound legislation, which required one
thing to be acted on at a time which
had obstructed and prevented action.
It was as though the majority of a
Court bad decided, instead of taking up
the cases on their calendar singly and
thus disposing of them, to combina
them all in one issue, swear all -iko
witnesses, hear all lh*> lawyers, aad
send out the jury instructed to rsadw
one general verdict for the plaintiffs or
defendants oh all fhe cases taken to
gether. If tfie minority of the Court
this, and stand for the old
way of trying each case uy oatif,
might be accused of resisting and de
feating action. But would thut be just?
Gen. Turney, of Tenn., next got the
floor, and made a speech dead against
the Texas provisions of this bill, as
robbing Texas of a large territory, and
organizing it as New-Mexico, and thus
transferring it into Free instead of
Slave soil. He esteemod this outrage
ous, and did not see how any Southern
man could abide it.
Col. Benton next began to speak
slowly, in a low tone, and not impres
sively. He soon sent me into the
House.
But 1 will not speak of the day’s
doings in the Hall. They were a lit
tle more belligerent than yesterday’s
but the result was the same—ooo.
Toombs of Ga. made an ugly speech
against the Northern Whigs, und was
answered effectively by Duer of our
State, and ex-Speaker Winthrop. Ba
ker of 111. also spoke pretty' well. You
will have the substance by telegraph.
Byt what use of talking? We want
votes. The ultra Southerners were
violent, but they are few. Hall of Mo.
(strongly anti-Benton) declared himself
in favor of California as she is. There
will not be forty votes against her on
the final Yeas and Nays. But Oh! that
seems such a weary way off’! I shall
quit to night and go home. There is
little hope of any decisive action
soon.
There was a vote by Yeas and Nays
at the outset this morning which may
be misapprehended. It was on going
into Committee on the California bill,
which many strong friends of the bill
resisted at the moment because they
wished first to lake up the Mint bill,
&.c. now lying on the Speaker’s table
and have them referred and printed.
They would have been ready to go into
Committee in half an hour at furthest.
The vote On the question stood—
Yeas 94; Nays 88.
Total absent or not voting—47, be
sides the Speaker. Half of them were
in their seats soon after, but came late,
not expecting any question to be taken.
1 think there are not twenty Members
now absent from the city, but several
are sick.—Messrs. Sackett, Bokee,
and Clarke of our State are in ill
health. Mr. McKissock is absent.
By the way, lain assured that the
Election Committee did substantially
decide the lowa case in Mr. Miller’s
favor, and that Mr. McGaughey’s re
turn will he the signal for action.
Thomson has just put forth a pham
phlet, which I think will hurt his case.
He does dot deny that Miller received
the most vines, but wants the Mormons
disfranchised because his own party
didn’t organize their election districts
right. Suppose they had for him,
would he ever have thought of this?—
H. G.
Slave Property.— We observe that
it is going the rounds of the newspa
pers, that there are $1,500,000,000
worth of slave property in the fifteen
slave States of this Union. This
we do not believe. Allowing three
millions of slaves, this estimate would
be five hundred dollars a head for old
men, old women, and children—lame,
halt, blind, &c as well as the young,
and middle aged men and women.—
This estimate is too high. Two or
three hundred each, at most, would be
nearer the value of all sorts, sizes Sic.
considered, which would make the
market value from 6 to $900,000,000
only; but the real value is less than
nothing; the slaveholders are eaten up
by them; they must keep them, find
and clothe them, and pay the doctors’
bills, winter and summer, whether they
have work for them or not; indeed, in
most cases it would be far cheaper to
hire their labor. And again, not only
the slaveholders, but the country is
blighted and impoverished by the foot
print of the slave. Slavery is a loss
and a curse both to master and slave,
hut more particularly to the poor whites
residing in slave States.— Wilmington
(Del.) Chicken.
Humbug. —Everybody, perhaps, is
not acquainted with the etymology of
the word Humbug. It is a corruption
of Hamburgh, and originated it the
following manner:—During a period
when war prevailed on the continent,
so many false reports and lying bulle
tins were fabricated at Hamburgh
that at length, when any one would
signify his disbelief of a statement, he
would say, “You had that from Ham
burgh” and thus, “that is Hamburgh”
or “Humbug,” became a common ex
pression of incrcdulty.
Death of Jane Porter.— Miss J.
Porter the well-known author of the
Scottish Chiefs and many other stand
ard novels and romances, expired at
the residence of her brother, Dr W
Ogilvic Porter, Portland-Square, Bris
tol, on Tuesday night from a second
attack of pulmonary appoleky. Miss
Porter was in her 74th year, and main
tained to the last moment not only her
intellectual faculties unimpaired, but
that cheerfulness of disposition for
which she had been so much admired
during her long life.—NY Evangelist
From the N. Y. Tribune.
Thirty-first Congress--First Session.
Washington, Wednesday, June 19.
The events in the Senate to-day have been
rapid, interesting, some of them startling,
and possibly important upon the final destiny
of the Compromise Bill. For an hour in the
morning, after the special order of the day
was called—which is now the Omnibus or
Compromise bill every day successively—it
seemed as if the day was to be given to
business and not to speech-making.
A variety of amendments were offered by
friends to the bill or those who look upon it
with some indulgence, but who desire to
make it better, dissussed in short and perti
nent speeches and voted down one after ano
ther. Mr. Walker of Wia. moved two of
these amendments, the fist of which proposed
to admit Foreigners in the Territories who
•hould have declared their intention of be
coming citizens, to vote at the elections and
upon the question of forming State Govern
ments. The other was to strike out the
Provision of the bill which prohibits the Ter
ritorial Legislatures to discriminate between
residents and non-residents in the matter ol
Taxation.
Mr. Underwood moved to strike out the
appropriation of two sections of land in each
township to educational purposes, and to sub
stitute an appropriation of one section in each
township only, according to the fsrmer
practice, except in the one oCOregon. His
amendment met with the same fate and was
lost, only eight Senators voting m the affirma
tive, ahowrng (hat there is some generosity
left in the in the disposition of what
costs nothing.
While things in the Legislative line were
firogressing thus swimmingly, there was a
ittle scene occurring in the center of the hall,
which contrasted pleasantly with ihe wide
awake character of all around. Mr. Whitcomb
of la. whose health, I believe by the way, is
not very good, had sunk into a most profound
sleep, his head depending in a picturesque at
titude over the back of his chair, and swaying
back and forward, as if abandoned by the
owner to its own volutions, while his col
league, Mr. Bright, who sat next to him,
casting a half alarmed and comical look
around the galleries as if to see who was
watching the operation, made several des
peate efforts to shake the drowsy Senator
into consciousness all of which p.oved
failures. The distinguished legislator from
the lioosier State persisted in this senatorial
snoose despite every exertion until aroused
possibly by the stentorian utterances of hi 3
own nasal music, when he awoke looking re
freshed and innocent.
Mr. Hale's proviso on Jefferson Davis’s
amendment was voted down without the for
mality of a division. The amend itself, pro
viding for the repeal of the Mexican laws—
one of the main reliances for keeping Slave
ry out of the Territories—was honored by
the yeas and nays, and was also rejected—
yeas 18, nays 29.
Mr. Foote, who had struggled stoutly in
argument against the amendment as unneces
sary, pernicious, and directly in the teeth ol
the uniform Southern pretension that those
lawe do not now exist in force, and that the
Constitution gives the right to the slaveholder
to take his slaves to the Territories in spite ol
any laws to the contrary, Mr. Foote, whe
said all this, caved in when the voting came
round and went for the amendment—yielding,
I suppose, to the pressure of this position.
Finally Mr. Underwood, who likes to heal
work, like the member of a Western Legisla
ture who got a few couples ol his neighbors
divorced without their consent, because every
body else was doing something for their con
stituents, and who seemed to be quite inno
cent} of the intention of throwing such a
firebrand into the camp, offered an amend
ment, to the effect that, if Texas should re
fuse to accept the ten or twelve millions tu
be tendered her in consideration of a misera
ble claim to a mirerable desert, without wood
or water, she should be privileged to sue the
United States for a settlement of accounts.
Mr. Hunk flared up at die insult thus
offered to his State, and seemed to think that
the proper remedy was to insult every body
else—the Senate, the United States, Gen,
Taylor and “the rest of mankind,” for all ol
whi?h Mr. Badger gave him one of the mosi
genteel skinnings in a forensic way that you
ever listened to. This had the effect tc
bring the valliant General down a peg or twe
and he finished off by reading a classical ex
tract from Titus Livius, which he fanccd
presented a striking parallel with the wrongs
that Texas is suffering at tlie hands of the
United States.
Mr. Webster thought the amendment un
necessary, but that instead the President ol
the United Stales should be instructed, in
the happening of the contingency, to sue
Texas, in a bill to test the tilth to New-
Mexico.
Mr. Foote showed no little alarm, and
finally announced in the most formal and im
pressive manner, that if the amendment were
persisted m it must prove the rum of the bill
—that several Senators had declared that n
would be a tine qua non with them that nc
such threat should be held in terrorem ovei
Texas. He entreated most pathetically that
Mi. Underwood would withdraw his amend
ment. Mr. Underwood said that would dc
no good, as it would be immediately removed
Mr. Clay raised his placid head above the
waves, to still the tumult, by piopostng a
Compromise. He suggested that the amend
ment, which he gently reproved his incau
itous colleague for thtowinginto the scathing
ocean of dissensions, to increase the storm
should be withdrawn, and if renewed by an
enemy of the hill, should be voted down, as
Carlyle says, incontinent; and that, after the
battle was fought out, and the dead anti
wounded were duly cared for, a joint resolu
tion should be brought in, embodying the
question of the subsequent remedy, in the
probable contingency of Texas proving con
tumacious and refusing to receive the money
—the old fox not being willing to be caught
in his own trap, the union of different mea
sures in the name bill.
This proposition seemed to be received as
a placebo by the majority of the friends of the
bill, but unfortunately long experience has
proved that it is not so easy to buy the devil
as it is to raise hirn. Mr. Pearce of Md.
came to the rescue. The whole broad ocean
of discussion in relation to ihe powers and
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the
United Slates seemed to be opened, and to
promise plenty of scope for a innath’sdebate.
He ended by giving in as hts sine qua non
that some feature shoald be incorporated in
this bill which would at all events secure a
final settlement of the question with Texas.
Mr. Foote, in despair, moved an Executive
Session. This seemed about to Ire acceded
to, when Senators around the hall seized the
moment to give notice of amendments ad in-
Jimtum. Among those the most impoitant
was one from Mi. Berrien to the effect that
the Senators and Representatives elect from
California be sent home with a flea in their
ear, and that two denature and one Represen
tative may be elected after the passage of this
bill, in their stead—and this he, 100, an
nounced as his imr qua non. He has consci
entious scruples and a lender conscience.
The cup seemed now to be full. Mr. Clay
rose in hts wrath. He said that fifty times
during the progress of this bill lie had been
upon the very point of giving up all hope ol
composing the discordant elements which
rule the destinies of the country, and that
when he saw the spirit which was manifested
—the disposition on the part of every one to
have his own way, and to thwart by every
means in his power the progress of the bill,
he was disposed to let them all go to the
devil together. Such was the substance of
his short harangue, put however in more set
ph/ases, as it is difficult for Henry Clay to be
100 sogry to be ornate and elegant in expres
sion.
Mr. Berrien hurled back his insinuations
and said that Mr- Clay had said that he, was
aiming to thwail fbt bill.
Mr. Clay contradicted him point blank
upon that point, without taking "'luch trouble
to explain.
Mr. Berrien stated his position and re
iterated his srte qua non.
Mr. Foote deprecated excitement, to which
Mr. Clay replied with a look of mingled ex
haustion and despair, "You, Sir, would be
excited 100, if you had my task to perform."
The scene ended by voting an extra Session.
To-morrow the fight will be renewed.
s. P. A
A Free Soil State Convention.
The friends of Freedom in Michigan, with
out party distinction, held a State Convention
on the 29th ult. at Marshall, Calhoun Co.
The Convention was called to order by Hovey
K. Clark, of Marshall; after which, Orlan
do Moffatt, of Calhoun, was chosen Chairman,
and F. Raymond, of Wayne, Secretary. A
Committee of six was chosen to draft reso
lutions expressive of the sense of the Con
vention, consisting of Messrs. Clarke and
Hussey of Calhound, Thompson of Branch,
Crane of Baton, Thomas of Kalamazoo, and
Curtis of Oakland.
The Convention was them addressed by
Messrs. Gibbs and Champlain of Calhoun,
Tripp of Lenawee, Stocking of Branch, Mc-
Bratney of Wayne, and others.
The Committee, by their chairman, re
ported the following Resolutions, which,
after being fully discussed by Dr. Cuitiu oi
St. Clair, Messrs. Clarke and Hussef of
Calhoun, w«e nnmimously adopted, aa fol
lows:
Resolved, That we are in favor of the
application of the principles of Freedom to
all territory within the reach of our political
power, at all times and under all circum
stances, against all supposed limitations of
great interests, against all combinations and
against all compromises."’
Resolved, That these principles demand
the immediate recognition of the right of the
State of California to admission to the posi
tion of a sovereign State; and that the denial
of this right as a concession to the interests
of Slavery, or any delay in granting it, is an
outrage upon the citizens of California, and
a violation of the established practice of our
Government.
Resolved, That the People of Michigan
will, in our judgment, prove themselves faith
ful to the principles which they have repeat
edly asserted; and that among these stand
first in their attachment the power of Con
gress to prevent the extension of Slavery into
Territories now free, and their duty to exer
cise it. And that the action of the last
Legislature of this State, in the passage of
the "Rescinding Resolutions,” wae procured
by the violation of most solemn pledges, and
by the most unprincipled of political com
binations; and from which the people will
yet vindicate themselves by the punishment
of their betrayers, or submit to be degraded
to the position of the willing tools of one
great man's ambition.
Resolved, That the new Territories, ask
ing that civil governments may be established
among them, are entitled to be heard; and
that in the organization of such governments
it is the right and duty of the North to insist 1
upon the absolute prohibition of Slavery
therein, as the only means by which Slave
ry ever has betn or can be restricted in its
extension in this country.
Resolved, That the Compromise bill re
ported by the Senate Committee of thirteen,
like all compromises with Slavety, is another
proposition tar the surrender of Northern
principle to the arrogance of Southern pas
sion; that we look upon it with abhorrence,
as an insult to the Northern men, and es
pecially to Northern juries; that we expect
nothing from such compromises but their.
inevitable result disappo iitment and de
feat.— Tribune.
Slavery in California.
In the course of his remarks, at the com
plimoiiuiy dinner given to him by tb* prin
ters and cilizens of Albany, the Hon. Edward
Gilbert thus alluded to the slavery question in
California:
“A queslioa of greater importance than
these on which he proposed to touch, was
the question of slavery. They believed they
had settled this question upon the highest
Southern ground, but he found they had
been led into a mistake. So tar as the clause
of the constitution prohibiting slavety was
concerned, it was adopted unanimously by
the Convention which framed the constitution,
and it was unanimously adopted by the peo
ple themselves. (Applause.) The popula
tionof California, for the most part, waa com
posed of free laborers from the North and
the South, and he placed himself among that
number. [Loud applause They had taken
a solemn oath against slavery of every kind
—that neither black slavery nor white slave
ry, nor any other kind of slavery, should
be tolerated in California. Thus far, they
‘had accomplished this.—[Applause.] They
feel that if African slavery had been intro
duced into Calitornia, it will degrade free la
bor. would never submit to that insult, j
[Applause.] Above and beyound that, they
felt the spirit of the agp called for Freedom,]
universal Freedom [applause] and they would
be derelict to what they believed to be their!
Constitutional duty if they did not provide!
for that. The question of slavery then, so
far as California was concerned, was settled.
The decision had gone forth. It would never)
be changed. If there were a laten t hope
among the opposition to the admission of I
California, that by delay slavery might be
introduced, he might as well say at once, it
never can. [Great and loud continued ap-;
plause.] He felt as he spoke, for he, in,
common with thousands and thousands, might
in the vicissitudes of life, be forced to dig
for gold; and never, he believed, could they
bring slaves to labor along side of Ireetnen.
Their conscience, education, principles, told
them slavery was wrong. They did not de
sire to ride this question. They had no po
litical aspirations depending upon it. It was
an all pervading principle.”
Were the Thebans Negroes.—There
has been a wonderful fuss over a mummy at
Boston lately. It is described as very ancient,
and was supposed to be a Princess 01 Pries
tess of Thebes, in her glory.—Great paiade
and ceremony has been made a* to the un
rolling the mummy. It has been done with
much care in regard to highly excited litefary
taste in Boston, and in regard to the science
of mummy-making, as well as the presump
tion that jewels, or manuscripts, or something
else very valuable, or curious, might he found
entombed in this relic of mortality.
Before the unrolling of the antiquated
thirty, we had many literary strictures and
lectuies from the learned, in Boston and
about, in regard to the genealogy of the The
bans, of whom the mummy was sup]>osed to
be a royal relic. One important point was,
to make out, that the Thebans, were a dif
ferent race from the poor black creatures that
mope now among the ruins of the c;fy of a
hundred gates. Oh! no. It would be bad
taste enough to be paying great respect to the
corpse of a nigger, it it be royal. We were
assured therefore, by the learned doctors, that
(he Thebans were not Africans, but a nobler
race, and had none of the peculiarities of
niggerdom Although this did not quite
agree with Heroditus, and their colemporary
historians, nevertheless the learned were sure
it must be so.
Well, the poor old mummy, was at length
stripped of its swadiing clothes, snd disem
boweled, and furnished evidence of Ittle else
than that it was a veritable “he.nigger” after
all. A humbling relic enough of Theban roy
alty, learning, and renown.
The Rothschilds.—lt is said that the for
tune of the Rothschilds is not less than seven
hundred and thirty millions of francs, or twen
ty-nine millions four hundred thousand pound*
British money —About $146,000,000
TOE NORTH STAI
ROCHESTER, JUNE 2», 1850.
Thi North Star is sometimes seat to friend*
who do not take the paper, in the bops that they
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscription* and
donations for the same may he safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Fredirick Douglass, Rochester,
N. Y.
W a rted—Several Travelling Agists,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations lor
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to FrsD
erici Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Our English friends who have not paid
their subscriptions to the North Star, for the
year 1850, are requested to forward them, by
Post Office Order, to Mrs. Henry Richard
son, 5, Summerhill Grove, Newcastle-oo-
Tyne. r. d.
I American Religion and American
Slavery.
What makes the anti-slavery warfare most
diffcult and dangerous, is the fact, that sla;
very has long been incorporaild with the religi
ous ideas and institution* of the Americas
people. To buy, sell, transfer, to whip, chsiq
and fetter a brother man, has been long deem
ed consistent with good fellowship in the
church of the living God, and not in compa
tible with a life devoted to pure religion. The
very Rev. Chief Priests of our religion, have
gone the length to asset t, that slavery is it
self of divine appointment; that in seme
cases it is a high Christian duty to hold the
slave in bondage. A class less ultra, but not
less mischievous than this, speak of slavery aa
an evil, but that the evil tails upon the mas
ter not upon the slave. A more numeroui
class still, (with Bible in hand and faces turn
ed heavenward,) solemnly declare, that, while
they fully admit the great evil of slavery
they that the church of God haj
any right lo interfere wilh it. They contend
that neither Christ nor his apostles evei
made slaveholding a barrier to Christian fel
lowship; that what Christ and his apostlei
never did, the church of Christ has no ngh
to do, that it is ihe duty of the preacher tc
preach the gospel, to seek the salvation oi
souls, and never to interfere with the lawt
and civil arrangements of society, that th«
latter must be left to the statesman. With
out attempting to decide which type of these
opinions is the most objectionable and injur
ious, we may say, what must be evident tc
the reader, that the whole, taken together,
has but one aim, and leads to but one result,-
the preservation, and perpetuation of slavery;
and! render al' efforts at emancipation both
difficult and dangerous—difficult, because the
public ear is chained to the pulpet, where the
voice of mercy and justice cannot reach it;
—dangerous to the humble reformer, because
in opposing the abomination under the altar,
the crafty priest finds it easy to misrepresent
him as assailing the altar itself and as disign
ing not only to destroy slavery, but the re
ligion of the Lamb of God. Thus the chuich
is not only the strongest bulwark of slavery,
but it is the point most secure from attack.
In her hand is lodged to a large extent, the
powers of life and death; and woe to the man
who falls a victim to her wrath and provokei
her exterminating thunder. He who would
know w hat it is to he isolated in the midst ol
men, to see himself regarded with averted
eyes, to be an object of general hatred and
suspicion to be deserted and shunned bv all
former fiiends, to seea vigorous reputation
wither under the insidious poison of private
slander, and to see his business prospects dar
kened and at last destroyed, may drink thu
full cup of sorrow, by a bold and faithful ex
posure of the wicked position of the Ameri
can church and clergy. Of all motives for
persecution, the blindest and most bitter ii
'hat which falsely calls itself religion. Its
thirst is satisfied with nothing short of the
blood at every blow. “To make war upon the
church of the living God.” What less than
the dames of hell is an adequate punishment
for such a heaven-daring crime? What! speak
evil of the men who minister at the altar of
the Most High? For such reckless wicked
nee6 —for such aactilegious temerity, let his
character be blasted forever, brand him infi
del, stamp him atheist, call him dieorganixer,
and warn the world against him as a most
dangerous man. Such is but a faint picture of
the malignity of religious persecution, as it is
at this moment carried on against the aboli
tionists. Illustrations of the truth ofthiastate
ment may be found in nearly all the peiiod
icals of the leading denominations of profess
ing Christians in this country. The conduc
tors of these journals, aim to crush, in the
most summary manner, any man who will
pursue sin to the door of the church. The
fear of offending the church, the dread of her
overwhelming power, seala the lips of many
a timid soul whose heart yearns in sympatny
with the crushed and plundered bondman.
There then is the great difficulty: Slavery
is protected by the church, and the church
is regarded as the highest object by the peo
ple. Her they will stand by, right or wrong.
Many who see this, and understand the crimi
nal connection of the church with slavery,
and the vital support which she gives to it,
nevertheless, shun to majes war upon her,
and aeek the downfall of slavery; through
some other channel. They would be ene
mies to Slavery, and would at the same time
stand well with the Church: they therefore,
sympathize with the slave, simply as politi
cians, not as Christians. They would not have
the distracting subject introduced into the
Church.but would gladly tee the evil,removed
by political means. This proves, the mighty
power of the church, and shows with whai
impunity she may shelter sin, and how
secure the abominations of slavery and war
may real under the pulpit.
We hold, and have held for the last ten
years, that, for the existence of slavery the
American Church and Clergy, are not only
responsible, but are the only body which has
the power to abolish Slavery in the land. It
the dungeon of American bondage be firmly
locked, the American Church has the key.
In the present circumstances of our cause,
owing to the discussions with respect to the
extension of slavery, we fear attention has
not been as closely fixed upon the church as
her importance demands. She should never
be forgotten a* the foster mother of the infernal
system of human bondage, and in proportion
to the timidity of the many should he the
boldness of the few in exposing her corrup
tions.
Politic* hare no poweT tc sustain slavery
as religion has. The latter has to do with
men's consciences sympathies and eternal
interests. It shakes the trembling spirit over
the vast and solemn expanse ot eternity. It
teaches him the shortness of time, the little
now of earthly objects—that this life is but a
probationary state in which our character and
destiny are to he determined forever. The
ministers of this Religion stand before the
people and proclaim their words under the
general admission that they are called and
qualified to make known the mind of the ever
living and true God. As a consequence they
are heard with respect, attention, and defer
ence, such as arc paid to none oiher, they
can speak when all beside them must be si
lent; when thuy spread forth their hands ths
people bow down. They form themotalsof
the Community and if slavery be tolerated it
is because they do not condemn it.—r. d.
The Letter of Benjamia Coates.
Having tecently given our views on the
subject of African colonization, we deem it
unnecessary to go into a lengthy reply to the
letter of Mr. Benjamin Coates. The points
by him, have, boon answered satisfac
torily to our own tniad, times without num
ber. ilc seems amazed at the amount of
prejudice, which the colored people entertain
towaids the American colonization society.
We assure him that there is something more
than prejudice; and it is an intelligent appre
ciation both of the men composing that so
ciety and the measures they proposed. It
has created more prejudice in this country
against the free colored man—raised against
him a greater amount of hostility, than the
infant Republic of Liberia will be able to
atone for in fifty years. It has taught the
nation that we are low, ignorant and besotted
that our elevation in this country is im
possible— that Afiioa, and not America, is
our country and some of its members have
gone the scandalous length of tecommending
the enactment of stringent laws against our
rights and liberties, with a view to our coer
cion and final expatriation. It is is not at all
surprising that colored men should contem
plate that society with other than feelings of
complacency.
For ourselves, we look with suspicion on
any medium which propose! to free the nation
from its unrighteous treatment of the colored
people, that does not involve a deep and radi
cal repentance. To remove the objects of
American hatred, is not to remove that hatred
itself. It is a climbing up some other way,
and is therefore to be discarded. We-beg
and entreat our colonization friends to desist
from their colonization scheme, and to al
low its) sufficient repose toresume that course
of steady improvement which has marked and
will continue 10 mark the progress of colored
men, in this, the land of theit nativity.
For more than two hundred years, we have
been the constant campanions of the white
man, and the joint possessors, with him, of
this country; and ihe readiness with which
we adapt ouiselves to the circumstances
around us, induces the belief that we eland
as good a chance of advancement, here in all
things pertaining to human walfare as we
should do, were we instantly transformed to
the western coast of Africa.—r. a.
ft/ 3 The letter of M. R. Delany, (which
takes up a large share of our Editorial apace)
deseives perhaps a few words from us in reply.
With all that he says as to the desirableness
of cultivating amicable feelings among those
whose end and aim is, the abolition of sla
very, and the elevation of the free colored
people, we most heartily agree. We shall
probably go as far in promoting such feel
ings as he himself would desire, and as far
as is compatible with the free expression of
our honest convictions in respect to the con
duct of our public men.
Identity of color, does not forbid a difference
of opinion: and having a commmon object,
does not prohibit a free expression of that dif
ference; and in the light of these facts, we
expressed our sentiments in respect to the
conduct of Ward, in consenting to address a
public meeting in Philadelphia in a colored
church, where colored peoj le themselves
were, by the terms of the call that convened
that meeting,' expressly denied the right to
a seat in the lower part of the building, which
was expressly and exclusively appropriated
to white persons.
We have re-examiinined what we said in
“The North Star,” to which Mr. Delany
takes exception, and we find nothing in it so
grossly personal as to justify the implied
censure which our friend Delany has so feely
lavished upon us. One must be stiuck, on
reading his letter, with the appropriateness
of his advice, if applied to himself. In cor
recting our,errors he has followed the example
of many others who have presumed to give
advice; by doing the very thing himself,
which be disallows in us. He compares our
comments upon Mr. Ward’s handbill, to th«
"uncivilized, vulgar, attacks of thcMississippi
ruffian and ho goes on imputing, (by im
plication to be sure,) such base motives for
our conduct, as jealousy, envy, and mea n
ambition—all of which we think quite gratu
itous, and uncalled for. We undertake to
affirm that our whole course of conduct to
wards Mr. Ward, (and we think that the
columns of the North Star will bear us out in
our affirmation,) up to his recent visit to
Philadelphia, has displayed marked admira
tion of his very superior talents; and a high
appreciation of his charactei, as a man.
When we debated with him in New York, a
year since, we bore this testimony to his de
portment in that debate, “He showed himself
a skillful debater, as well as a powerful de
claimed and certainly possessed a large power
over the intelligent audience before him. With
an opponent of such genius and magnanimi
ty, it affords us pleasure to discuss any ques
tion of difference.” These were our words
one year since. On the 16th may 1850 we
used the following language, with respect to
Mr. Ward, Frederick Douglass was followed
by Samuel R. Ward, who, for about 20
minutes, poured forth a brilliant stream of
wit, humor, and argument, fairly blistering
the unfortunate Mr. Grant. Does this look
like ambition, envy, or jealousy! When we
found ourselves assailed on the platform,
during the last Anniversaries, in New York,
after encountering and silencing the clamor of
the mob, on retiring from the platfbrm.who, of
all the talented colored men who were pre
sent, did we select to complete the triumph of
human brotherhood, over vulgar prejudice,
but Samuel R. Ward? If we differ with him
now, it is not that we love him leu but free
dom and equality more. And If M. R. De
lany should ever venture to hold a public
meeting in the City of Rochester, or else
where, on the pro-slavery conditions of driv
ing the Negro into a separate pew, be shall
find us equally ready to denounce such
conduct on his part. Persona must be respect
ed, but principles are above persons, and we
must follow the latter, though they bring us
into conflict with the whole world.—f. d.
Cincinnati. —Our fliends in Cincinnati,
have determined to celebrate the 4th of July
in that city, by opening a fine Temperance
Hall and have done us the honor to in
vite u»to deliver an address on that day, ap
propriate to the occasion.
We shill comply with this kind invitation:
and shall, probably, spend several days in
Cincinnati, and also, in Pittsbnrgh bfore our
return. r. o.
Christian Anti-Slavery Convention.
The proceedings of this body ate now
published in pamphlet form. The latter con
tains the call for the Convention, and tho
introductory sermon, by the Rev. C. C.
Boynton, together with sundry letters from
distinguished persons in different pans of the
country, who had been invited to attend, but
who were unable to be present.
This pamphlet also contains a very eloquent
and earnest address by the Convention to the
American churches. We doubt not that ike
effect of the Convention will be beneficial to
the cause of the slave; yet we cannot but re
gret that, among all the distinguished men
invited to attend it, there does not adfcm to’
have been one associated with the old-organi
zation abolitionists; but all were drawn from
the ranks of either the old or new Liberty
nartv.—f. d
ID* Wc are indebted to William Harned
for a copy of the Annual Report of the Ame
rican and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, pre
sented in New York, May 7th, 1850. This
is one of the most valuable collections of re
cent facts on the whole subject of slavery
now extant, and it does great credit to the
vigilance, industry, and research of Lewis
-Tappan, Esq., who is understood to be the
compiler. This Report may be obtained at
61 John-st. N. Y.— r. d.
ID* We beg to present our best acknowl
edgments to the Hon. W. H. Seward, for
valuable Congressional documents, recently
received. —t n.
To Samuel It. Ward.
Mv Dear Friend: I hare recently seen
the extra North Star,” issued by Fredtrick
Douglass, an old fiiend and oppressed brother,
and I regret to learn that in you the cause of
our downtrodden people has recently experi
enced a sad and mortifying damper.
The charges made against you were in
consequence of a handbill calling a meeting,
gotten ,up in Philadelphia by the whites, ex
pressly for yourself, the conditions of which
were degrading to the colored people, altho’
the meeting was to be held in a church be
longing exclusively to themselves, having
colored trustees and a colored pastor the
offensive part of which read thus The
lower part of the house Will be reserved ex
clusively for white persons, who arc particu
larly invited to attend. The complaint
against you is, that concerning this most pal
pable insult to your intelligence, you were
silent during your address.
If this charge had come from any other
source than one so reliable as that of Freder
ick Douglass, I would not fot a moment have
placed any confidence in the statement; and
since I have seen but “one side of the story,”
not having had an opportunity of seeing your
version of it, justice, impartiality, and per
sonal friendship, would induce me to stay
judgment, in a measure, until an opportunity
offered of hearing “both sides.”
But, taking the premises for granted, how
can it be possible that Samuel R. Ward,
himself a coloied man, and an avowed enemy
of all that tends to injure our cause—Samuel
R. Ward, a professedly high-toned anti-sla
very man—he of whom Governor Seward
•aid that he never heard true eloquence
until he heard Samuel R. Ward speak”—he
of whom Horace Greeley declares, that Capt.
Rvnders and Dr. Grant, the famous Demo
cratic leaders of the Infidel Club of Tammanv
Hall, compared with whom are but second
rate monkeys—he of whom a recent writer
in ihe Philadelphia Leger says: He Beemed
an animated statue of black marble, of the old
Egyptian sort, out of which our white civili
zation was hewn. Every degrading associa
tion dropped away from his color, and it was
as rich in its blackness as the vplvet pall on
the bier of an Emperor”—he whom I beheld
at the great Free Soil Convention at Buffalo,
in 1848, in the midst of assembled thousands I
—lawyers, judges, priests, politicians, mem
bers of Congress and Senators—stepping out
upon the scaffold in the dignity of manhood,
without a superior in the crowded multitude,
pealing forth in strainsof majestic eloquence,
bearing a living representation of those divine
like philosophers who originated mysteries in
Ethiopia, the sciences in Egypt, and gave
civilization to the white races of Europe—
how could such a man as this stand up, under
the circumstances charged in the premises, to
the dishonor of himself and the disgrace of
hisiace? This, I confess, I cannot realize.
This error, if committed at all, can only be
explained and excused on one point alone—ii
must have been an “error of the head and not
of the heart.” And I now call upon yon,
sir, to give satisfaction, at the earliest possible
hour, to your numerous friends and admirers
throughout the country, on this point at issue.
But it is seriously to be regretted that a
hostile feeling appears to exist between Mr.
Douglass and yourself, in consequence of
your position. You are both men'of great
intellectual capacities, endowed with much
ability—men of great celebrity and notoriety;
the reputed leaders among your people in
this country, being the conductors of the only 1
two existing secular newspapers devoted to
the elevation of our tace. This being con
ceded, you will permit one of the humblest 1
individuals among the common people, for 1
whom you are directing your efforts, to give
you his opinion, without being charged with J
an “impudent interference” in a matter that
does not concern him.
Whatever difference exieta between Mr. 1
Douglaee and yourself, especially in this in- i
stance, a mere difference of opinion, and
should be so considered and treated. And 1
would say to Mr. Douglass that, with this
view of the subject, 1 cannot therefore, under
any circumstances in the case, justify the rash
mannei in which he attacked you. When
we differ with an honorable man, we attack
bis position, and not the individual; and noth
ing will justify haish personal attacks but an
assault from a dishonorable opponent and
personal enemy. And I think a little sober
reflection will satisfy both on this point, when
Mr. D. will be willing, as he should be, to
make acknowledgment for the wrongs done
in this case. 1 mean wrong in the manner
and matter of the attack, even though the
allegations were all true to the letter. For it
does not appear, irom anything that Mr
Douglass complains, that the attack was pro
voked by any course of yours towards himself
personally.
You cannot find, in the history of enlight
ened deliberations, where great rnen, distin
guished for their talents, however opposed to
each other in position, have made such bitter
personal attacks, in denunciation of each
other, as have passed between you, espe
cially in this instance by Mr. Douglass.—
None, I think, can be found, except it should
be the uncivilized, vulgar attacks of the
Mississippi ruffian Foote, of the U. S. Senate,
to whom I will liken neither of you, in his
outlandish assaults upon the hoaty sage of
Missouri—Benton, and upon other advocates
of liberty in the councils of the nation. This
and similar cases are the only instances, and
these men are wholly without character or
reputation, save their heathenish ferocity and
daring impudence.
It will not do to justify these things in us,
because they are done by the whites. This
is no excuse for us. 1 deny that the same
things are done by white men, under similar
circumstances, occupying the same position
among their people as you occupy among us.
A people wholly oppressed, all making
struggling efforts for liberty and elevation
among their oppressors, have no time to spend
in personal hostility towards each other r ea
pecially among their leaders. IVe ca/mk
afford to be divided—it costs too much.
expense is greater than we can bear. It
do for others, but it will not do for us nor any
people circumstanced as we are. We must
learn adrptation—learn to suit outselves to
the time or the occasion, and be equal to any
emergency. Let others do as they may—
this we must do for ourselves, if we ever
expect success in the glorious cause of self
elevation.
In the American struggle fur liberty against
British despotism, supposing Washington,
Warren, Hancock, Jefferson, and other great
men, leaders among the people, had ceased
their mutual counsel and co-operation, and
commenced hostility among themselves, be
cause of a mere difference of opinion, what
would have beeome of the common people,
both civil and military, and the cause of Ame
rican liberty? This cause being in the hands
of the leaders, it is not hard to determine.—
And shall our cause suffer violenoe in our first
tottering steps at advancement? Just Heaven
decree otherwise!
The injury done to our people at large by
these proceedings, and the sacred cause in
which you have embarked, is
your conception. It was on the very morning
of the reception of the extra, favored by a
friend in Philadelphia, and before opening it,
that a gentleman stepped up to me, suggest
ing the idea of sending for S. R. Ward, to
pay Pittsburgh a visit.” When on opening
the package 1 held in my band, “what a tale
did it unfold This, of course, had its
effect. Thus, while others are writing you
into fame, you are writing each other down
The public has pronounced upon you as
aspirants—jealous of each other’s popularity
—rivals, contending for precedence in the
annals of fame, with a determination to ac
complish the design of personal ambition,
ihougt. it be done over the ragged fragments
of the liberties of your almost hopeless,
struggling people. The friends of Mr. Doug
lass say, Ward is jealous of Douglass’ pop
ularity,” while the friends of Mr. Ward, on
the other hand, say, Douglass is jealous of
Ward and Garnet, lest they become as popu
lar throughout ihe country as himself.” And
this, sir, you give them good reasen to say,
while you continue this personal hostility
towards each other; for a division among you,
causes a division of sentiment among the peo
ple in regard to you, who should and other
wise would be united in a oneness of feeling
toward you.
Aside from these bickerings, the noble ef
forts of you both in the holy cause of your
oppressed brethren and downtrodden humaui
ty, have been praiseworthy indeed. Proud
indeed, would 1 feel at the thought, that even
in a life-time, it were possible for me to attain
half the high-standing and respect that is
now either of your privilege to enjoy bui
whatever estimate I may set upon sudh a
proud privilege, I had rather remain in ob
scrurity as I am, than attain such a position
at the expense of another’s destiny. Nay,
palsied be the hand that holds this pen—stul
tified be the intellect that suggests the
thought—and hushed in the stillness of death
first be this voice, before giving utterance to
such an expression. God, our" common Fa
ther, has ordained otherwise—let us do as he
would that we should—truly love one another
then, and not until then, shall this selfihness
cease to find existence among us. Love would
imply a common liking lor each other—a
heart-felt intert st in each other’s welfare, and
a desire for each other’s prosperity. This is
that which God speaks of—this is the
love we should have one to another.
What may we expect ta gain by such a
Jombination of circumstances as those predi
cted I A glance at the fearless efforts of the
roble Magyars in the Hungarian struggle foi
liberty, will present a precedent, if need be,
;>oi lentous and fearful. Every intelligent ob
terver might have perceived during that me
aorable struggle, there were those among
he leaders who were jealous, enviously jeal
mis of each other. Such were determined to
occupy the highest places themselves, or pre
rent others, however competent, from doing
(o. In Gorgey, a spirit of ambition, and de
evraination to take the lead in the ranks ot
he great man, both civil and military, was
ppaiant from the start,
i lie Hungarian alarm waa given the peo
rallied; Liberty and Independence war
lieir watchword. greet men assembler
t solemn council. Kossuth, Gorgey, Bern,
Dembinsky, and others, formed the tank o
ttate and army. Kossuth was placed at tiit
head of civil department; and although Gor
gey occupied the high rank and trust of com
mander in chief of the army, he looked a
Kossuth with an eye of jealousy, desiring t<
have the sole control of both civil and mililarj
departments. Time rolled on. The arm;
entered the field, and victory seemed to awai
them at every conflict. Onward they marched
until the proud flag of Hungary was seen t<
float in the breeze from every hill-top. Unitei
stood the Hungarians; and, though by far in
ferior in numbers, they drove proud Austria
ts sue for redtess at the foreign couit of Rus
sia. Even this would have been of no avail
but there was Gorgey, the green-eyed mon
ater,” more to he dteaded than the terriblt
arm# of Nicholas. Victoiy followed victory
the Hungarian prospect brightened; the hep<
of the people heightened; the great men ha<
met to determine the conditions of Magya;
independence. The Genius of Liberty s«
perched above their deliberations, bearing ti
her hand the Charter of Redemption. Jui
at this eventful moment, when all stood wail
*ng, with fearful suspense, the tidings of th
last decisive blow, when victory would h
crowned with final triumph, and Hungar
stand redeemed among the nations of thi
earth—-just at this moment, with woundei
pride from disappointed ambition, Gorgey be
trays Hungary into the grasp of the enemy
and Hungary lays prostrate "at the feet of hn
majesty"— at the feet ol relentless despotism
Gorgey must rise, though Hungary fall; nay
Hungary must fall, that Gorgey shall rise
And may we expect a better fate, unde
similar circumstances, though our wcapom
are not carnal, but moral—" mighty \o th«
tearing down of the stronghold" of oppres
sion We may not. The thought is fearfu
to contemplate.
Now, sir, what I have written to you, ha:
not been induced from anything, knowingly
that you have said or done, but predicated a]
together on the couise pusued by the distin
guished Mr. Douglass to you, presuming
only that you have reciprocated t him m the
Hkftile although generosity compels
Jm to believe these errors,
wrong, are tuber errois of the
the of
that a sumption, thougfrit mayS
from an humble and obscuie source, ilßen’-,
necessarian duce a different course of
With Bhpliance that the eminence sus
tained of you, will induce you^kM
ally to the liberty taken in ildl
stance, by an humble ind ividua), I am jm jP
fully your sincere friend in the cause
and humanity,
MARTIN R DE^fflY
Pittsburgh, June lU. 1850.
Philadelphia, June 17th, 1850.
.Frederick Douglass I have often
thought that I should like to converse with
you on a subject on which we seem to differ
in opinion very materially; and aware, as I
am, of the great prejudice that you entertain
(in common with most of your
ren, as well as most of the
with which you associate)
that I takn a great interest
lull well that both yo.-ojt's*'' 5
"'Old .-Me.-iu .1 I v" v
r A
'Olh 3111 .if --or^B
"I’lOi 'I-, und (M .1 i!h v
cor with these friends in ilumß I
to ch.uacteri7.; it nine stiongly. jlH'
you the subject that I wish to presennW'
k with all your prejudice, is African coloiSl
lion. Were you a less intelligent man than
you are, I acknowledge that I should consider
the task a hopeless one; but I cannot bring my
mind to believe that Frederick Douglass,
with his power of judging between cause and
effect, can fail to see that the elevation of the
colored man, in any part of the world, must
have a favorable influence on his race, and
that the establishment of an independent re
public of colored men on the west coast of
Africa, acknowledged by the most powerful
and the most civilized nations of Europe,
having commercial intercourse with all parts
of the civilized world—thus bringing the citi
zens, through the medium of their commerce,
into social communication with the citizens of
every clime, and particular y with the Un ted
States, as the country from whence they emi
grated, whoso language they speak, and
where some of their friends and relations still
reside—thus appealing directly and powerfully
to the sense of justice, and alt the nobler feel
ings of our nature, by proving to what the col
ored man can attain under favorable circum
stances, conclusively destroying the only argu
ment that many honest and good men enter
tain, that he cannot take care of himself, and
must therefore be kept in slavery; but also,
and which perhaps (I am sorry to say it) is
of more we appealing to the self-interest
of the whites thn love of gain, which is a
powerful incentive the American character,
and so strong in it as to overcome even the
prejudice of color or caste arising from slavery,
1 hat this must be the case, and is the case
already, to some extent, 1 know; and having
teen the evidence myself—having had oc
cassiou very often to aid my Liberian friends
m their purchases, both in this city and New
s ork, where their money has obtained foy
them, in many cases, a consideration thar
iheir color alone would not, and with the in
crease of Liberia, in the power of her gov
ernment, and her extended commerce, must
naturally flow a much greater intereourse.
Think you not, Mr. Douglass, that the
man who may be turoeJ out of a railroad car,
ot is not allowed to get into an omnibus to
day, on account of his color, should he re
turn from Africa next year with his camwood,
his palm oil, or his gold dust, consigned to his
commission merchant, here, and goes oat
through our cities to make his purchases, is
a different man in the estimation of the com
munity from him who is content to stay here
and sell old clothes, black boots, or dress
fine, and drive the young ladies along Broad
way, or,with their white aprons on, make such
good servants at our hotels? Which of the two,
Ist me ask you, Mr. Douglass, is doing most
for his race, for his brethren in bonds, the
servant or the boot-black here, or the freeman,
he farmer or merchant of Liberia 1 I do not
ask vou to praise the Colonization Society,
nor to speak well of those who have sustained
it through all its difficulties and embaras*-
nents. If it pleases you best, and accord
with your taste and inclination to impute un
worthy motives to in it, do
so. I am very willing,raWhe, to bear my
full share of the odium that you may think
proper to throw on colomzationiste, and for a
private individual, my zeal will entitle me to
»ot a vety small portion of the wrath that
should be visited on the heads of those who
have aided (by their exettions, their influence,
their money) this most diabolical and wicked
scheme, as it has been termed. It is not to
deprecate your wrath or your censure that I
write, although I believe the time will come,
and that before many years, when Fredeiick
Douglass will I* convinced, that African
c 'lonization is one of the most povvertul
means not only for regenerating Africa, but
for regenerating America, in effecting ihe
abolition of slavery, and aiding largely in the
emancipation of the free colored population
of the United S;ates from th* weight of
prejudice that keeps them down, paralyses
their exertions, and crushes their hopes; and
that being so convinced, he will have the man
liness arid independence to acknowledge that
the men who have accomplished this are not
quite such bad men as he had taken them to
be, not altogether such an association of foojs j
and knaves as they are represented. I am fully
aware of the difficulties you would encounter
afte r oveicoming the deep-rooted prejudice o f
your own mind in going counter to the gen
eral sentiment of your friends, in acknowl
edging your error and their error in this re
spect. Had I time, and was it important to my
present purpose, 1 coaid prove to you that the
most zealous colonizationists, those on whom 1
the cause depends for support, and who have
sustained it through all its difficulties, are the
friends of the colored man in America, as
well as as in Africa-, that the most prominent
friends of the Colonization cause in one State
were among the truest friends of the colored
man in advocating his rights to citizenship in
Pennsylvania, by resisting the introduction ul
tli e word while, -in our late convention for re
vising the constitution a few years since.
Who ate the friends of ihe Emancipation
cause in Kentucky; and who have labored
so hard and persevering to accomplish it the
last year, against the proscriptive influence
of the pro-slavery party? Nearly every man
of them colonizatioiusts (the BreckeniJaps,
Young, Cassius M. Clay, and so on. And in
your own State, who has more manfully ad
vocated the right of tiie colored man than
Horace Grleley? I presume that ’you are
ready to say, as I believe you have said be
fore, that there are honorable exceptions, and
that in charging upon colonizationist a ha
tred to the black man, you do not mean
to include some good, well meaning mejh, 1
who have been misled by the scheme. Now,
sir, here is where I think you make the mis
take. You are accustomed to consider col
onization as a southern scheme, got up and
sustained by slaveholders, to git rid of the
few colored population, that they may the
more scarcely hold then slaves; and in sup
port of this opinion you will quote from
speeches from Southern mer, made in favor
of African colonization, where the free man
of color is as a “nuance,” or “un
worthy forgetting, at the
Hftfe
Ml
i§jp,
ftn-
PP
If’
llr
from the
men that comiWpeople *are in the habit of
calling upon for aid, looking to as their friends
at times of difficulty.
Ae a case in point; I sea in the last num
ber of the North Star, of June 13lb, a letter
from Mr. J. B. Yashon.of Pittsburgh, calling
colonization the twin-sisler of slavery, and
denouncing every man who allows himself to
be colonized in Africa, as an enemy to the
slave, and a traitor to the anti-slavery cause.”
Yet when in Pittsburgh, a few years since,
I saw Mr. Yashon, and had a conversation
with him on the subject of colonization in
the course of which 1 asked him who he
called upon when they wanted to build a
church, or for aid to the colored man—whether
it was not such men as Hon. Walter Fotward,*
or Charley Brewer, Esq. 7 (th#bnly coloni
zationists that I happened to know.) Yet he
said these very men that his son was then
studying law' with Mr. Forward, and that Mr.
F. had endorsed his note at a 1 ank for several
thousand dollars. Mr. Brewer, -too, they
looked upon as a friend in need. Yet both
these men do more for colonization than nine
teeu-iwe;itieihs of the whole population of
South Carolina. Mr. Yashon informed me,
at the same conversation, that his son intended
to emigrate to France or Mexico; and has
since then, I learn, gone tb, or “suffered him
self to be colonized” in, Haiti. Has he ihus
proved himself an enemy to the slave, ls
and an enemy to the anti-slavery cause
Or is it only going to Africa that makes this
gre at difference
But 1 see that you do not make this dis
tinction, as you say in the same paper In reply
to Horace Greeley To our apprehension,
it is far more noble on the part of the free
colored people to remain here, struggling
against the adverse winds of and
slavery, than selfishly to quit the country
with a view of bettering their own condition.”
You say further, “Let Mr. Greeley complain
as much as he may of our determination to
remain here. It shall go hard with us, befote
we shall consent tc leave these shores, while
three million of our*countrymen are in chains.
We ate resolved to fall or flourish with
them.”
Well, sir. I can hardly suppose lh.»! Horace
Greeley, or any other righl-lhinku.g man,
does wish Frederick Douglass to leave these
shores. Such men as yourself, Samuel K.
Ward, H. H. Garnet, and a few others, are
no doubt doing as much good for your race,
and probably a good deal more, than if you
were in Africa. But is that a reason for
pieventing those who are not so favorably cir
cumstanced, who have not had the opportu
nity for displaying their native talents here,
and are so situated as not readily to acquire
the education necessary thereto, from emi
grating to Africa, or any where else, if they
desire it, without being denounced as self
ish, as an enemy to the slave, and a
traitor to the anti-slavery cause?" 1 think
you would hardly like to be judged by your
own principles. Were you not born in Mary
land? Does not slavery exist there? And
h**e you not left yoar brethren in bonds, to
settle (call it colonize or emigrate, as you
please) in Western New Yoik, to breathe the
air of freedom, while your brethren are suf
fetlng under the Jash in Maryland Was
that selfish» Are you thereby an enemy to
the slave,” and a traitor to the anti-slavery
cause?” I should say, by no means; that
although you are enjoying a state of freedom
and equality that you could not have done in
Maryland, yet you have acquired an educa
tion and move in a society that you could not
obtain in a slave state. You edit a paper,
and can lecture to your countrymen, both
white and colored, on theevil9 of slavery, and
accomplish, in this way, a thousand-fold more
for your oppressed brethren, than if you had
remained in your native State. Is it not so
Is not every colored man who leaves the
South when he was born, and when his
brother in chains yet remain, enabled to do
more for them here, with greater opportunity
of acting on public sentiment, than by remain
ing there J Yet. according to your doctrine,
(for the principle is the same precisely,) no
one should leave the Southern States, while
slavery exists. You not only came away
from it yourself, but, if I mistake not, you
are willing to aid others in doing the same,
even to colonizing in Canada, in a cold, un
congenial climate, and where their efforts
cannot so well tell on slavery in the Southern
States. All this I by no means object to.—
Any condition, in my opinion, is better than
slavery. But if you can see the consistency
of denouncing those who escape from slavery,
or from the prejudice arising from slavery,
which cramps all their energies to a county
where they can enjoy all the rights of man—
to a country governed entirely by slavehold
ers—where they can make themselves re
spected, and bring all their talents, all their
industry, all the influence of their associated
force, through the government established by
themselves, to bear directly on slavery, and
in favor of their oppressed brethren, both bond
and free., and be satisfied with yourself for
doing thing, is more than I can
the who
the followers of Fox and
persecution in England
Would they have
accomplished more by remaining in England,
where they were oppressed and taxed to sus
tain what their conscience could not consent,
to, by colonizing America, and building up a
government based on the principles'&f-free
dom I cannot believe that you so think.—
And why you should not be willing that your
colored brethren should enjoy the privileges
that you could accord to your while brethren,
is to me a mystery. The fact is—allow me
to say so—that you do youtself injustice in
this matter, as well as your brethren. You
have looked at one side of the picture so long
and so intently, that you see the
other. A few weeks since, in publishing the
account of the mass meeting of colored men
in St. Louis in favor of colonization, when
Mt. Bell declared his intention 1 6 remove to
Liberia, and saying that the few months he
spent there was the only real freedom that he
had known in his life, you asked, “What ails
the man?” “Has he been to Africa since
he published iiis pamphlet Allow me to
say, sir, the error was with yourself. You
published only part of his remarks, and that
part the most unfavorable to Liberia; and in
endeavoring to give a wrong view to others,
you got a wrong view yourself, and perhaps
really convinced yiißragJfij’tjiat Mr. B. had
given a discouraging account of the country.
Should you giv&mf|jg9rajMn| for dofl|r so,
that colomzalionimJflHßHftlering an ac
count, and that yefWltly iMalted to give the
other side, 1 would remind you that two
wrongs never make a right, and that the only
proper way is, to ftell the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the trul^”
I have spun out a long letter, and spoken
my mind very p&ainly; but I trust thatlf you
«ree with me in all my views, you
ider the subject of sufficient import
ie welfare of a suf
ficient apology torone
that I feel sure is interested in allJipt con
cerns the interest, 1 nftTprestfrtt and future, of
his oppressed brethren.
I am, very respectfully,
BENJAMIN COATES.
The Downward Tendency of Freedem
at Washington.
Thdcompromise bill is gradually assuming
a shape, adapting it more satisfactorily to thh
views of slaveholders. Congress is to inter
pose no obstacle to the introduction of slavery
into the Territories. The Territorial Legis
lature prohibited from interfering against its
introduction, but arc permitted to pass police
regulations to enforce its claims, should it be
extended there. And, as if to encourage the
slaveholders to emigrate thither with their
slaves, the Senate, last Monday, after a full
discussion, resolved, by a vote of thirty-eight
to twelve, that “when the said Territory, or
any portion, of it, should be admitted as a
State, it shall be received into the Union,
with or without slavery, as Constitution
may prescribe at the time of their admission!”
The yeas and nays were as follows:
Yt\s—Messrs. Atchison, Badger, Bell,
Benton, Berrien, Bright, Dutler. Cass, (.'lay,
Clemens, Cooper, Davis of Mississippi, Daw
son, Dodgeoflowa, Douglas, Downs, Foote,
Houston, Hunter, Jones, King, Mason, Mor
ton, Norris, Pearce, Pratt, Uusk, Sebastian,
Shields, Soule, Spruance, Sturgeon, Turney,
Underwood, Wales, Webster, Whilecomb,
and Yu lee—3o.
Nays—Messrs. Baldwin, Case, Clarke,
Davis of Massachusetts, Dayton, Dodge of
Wisconsin, Greene, Hale, Miller, Smith,
Upham, and Walker—l 2.
So the amendment was agreed to.
Senators from the free States voting in the
affirmative: Blight, Cass, Dodge of lowa,
Douglas, Jones, Norris,-Shields, Sturgeon,
Whitecomb— Democrats, 9. Cooper, Webster
V\ higs. 2.
The amendment was moved for several
purposes, li w as desirable to draw a dis
tinct line between tiiC Free Soil men and the
old parties, so as to destroy, if possible, the
influence of the former, (l was important to
have a provision in the bill which should give
countenance to the idea that Slavery could
legally obtain foothold in the Territories. It
was an object to stimulate the immigration of
slaveholders to the Territories, and therefore
necessary to remove any apprehension in their
minds, that they might be divested of their
slaves if they went there. Although the
amendment is an abstraction, although one
Congees cannot bind the action of another,
still it war of great importance to the slave
holders, to eztort from the free Stale mem
bers a provision, which might serve as
ground for the charge of bad faith against
the North, should its Representatives here
after, tine U) the interests of Freedom, re
solve to discountenance the formation ofalave
States.— National Era,
Slaves Re-Captured.
The London Standard, of the 28th, pub
lishes the following particulars of a slaver,
by H. M. schooner Bermuda, Lieut. Jolly:
“The Bermuda, it seems, was at anchor
off the Isle of Pines, on the south side of
Cuba, on the 20lh, qlt., when a low, suspi
cious lookingbrig was discovered outside,
steering for land, hut without showing any
colors. Suspecting the vessel to be a slaver,
L eut. Jolly immediately got his little vessel
under way, and stood out for the purpose of
overhauling and examining her. The brig,
however, on discovering the Bermuda, at
once altered her course, and made all sail ofl
the land, the Bermuda in chase, and it was
not until after a run of 49 hours, when the
chase had made considerable way into the
Gulf of Mexico, that the Burinuda succeeded
in disabling her, and making her a prize.
“In the course of the chase, eighty shots
were fired from the Bermuda, many of which
told on the rigging, which was eventually so
disabled as to make her an easy prize. She
proved to be the Clementio of Rio Janerio.
176 tons Brazilian measurment, commanded
by Joas Goncales Bandeira. She had on
board, when taken, 284 slaves, of whom,
several have died since their capture, from the
slate of debility in which they were, in con
sequence of the want of food which was en
'irely out when she was captured. The ves
sel had Brazilian papers, dated in Novem
ber, 1848; and, prior to her surrender, she
hn:sted Brazillian cslors. She had taken a
Cuban pilot on board, and was about to land
her cargo on ihe Isle ot Pines, when discover
ed f»v H. M. schooner.
“The brig is a very beautiful one, and a
clipper. She is coppered, and said to be
worth one thousand pounds.
“The vessel and cargo will be proceeded
against in the Vice Admiralty Court, under the
British statute, which especially gives juris
diction to the Vice Admiralty Courts in sim
ilar cases.
“The Africans are to be landed this morn
ing at Fort Augusta, as we have been gjven
(o understand.
The same journal, of the 25th, gives the
following account of the disposition of the
slaves.
“The African* who formed the cargqj
ihe brig Clementio, prize to 11. M. schoonOT
Bermuda, were landed, to the number of 245
(all who survive of the 281 on borad the prize
at the lime of her capture,) on Tuesday morn
ing, at Fort Augusta, jn compliance with an
order of the Executive, from which period
they are placed under the charge of the prin
ciple officers of the customs of Kingston. We
learn that, as a bony, the Africans were m
better health and condition than they are
usually landed in after so long a voyage. A
few of them, however, were affected with
scurvy, and were very weak, and it is proba
ble that several deaths will yet take placc
ainong them. The majority of them are re
presented as being healthy and comparatively
strong.
“They will remain at Fort Augusta until
adjudication of the vessel and cargo by the
Vice Admiralty Court, and I hey will then no
doubt be placed under the charge of the
Agent Genoral of Immigration, to be dispos
ed of by him according to the provisions of
the British statute, which directs that any
slaves taken and condemned in Jamaica should
be apprenticed out for seven years. These
people cannot, of course, come within the
ptovisions of our immigration acts. We hope
that whenever it becomes the duty of the Ex
ecutor or others to dispose of ihe cargo they
will be carefully apportioned among agriouhral
applicants, and not enverted into domestic ser
vants, as a former cargo was, many years
ago, to the great injury of the people them
selves. and to the vast discomfort of those
who rcee.ved them.”— Anti-Slavery Stan
dard.
Sons of Temperance—An Outrage.
The National Division of the Sons of Tem
perance, last week, decided by a vote of 75
to 6, that the admission of negroes irTto the
order is “illegal.” This decision is a direct
and palpable violation of the constitution of
the order, which declare# that any man of
good moral character may be admitted. This
decision, we repeat, is a violation of the Con
stitution of the Order, and an outrage upon
the rights of members who have united with
the Order, nut deeming that it was to be
converted into an engine to opopose and de
grade a portion of the community. This re
sult has been biought about by the dictation
of slaveholders. Some of these gentry hold
ing 400 slaves wetejttpsent, and showed
their hostility to the cwbred men by getting
angry, because a company of colored boys
walked in the procession.
But we are surprised that the members or
(hat Division should be willing to yield to
demands of these slaveholders. Their con
duct de*erves the ajernest condemnation of
every friend of temperance in the free States.
Some of these members, we blush to say, are
members ol the Free Soil parly. Their con
duct has disgraced and dishonored the party,
and we trust they will leave iiatonce, or that
they will be kicked out of it. One of these
members, Mr. Nathaniel Wilson, of Oiwno,
Me., was a Free Soil candidate for the Sen
ate of that Slate last year. He has been false
and recreant to principles. Such Free Soil
ism is mere hollow-hearted pretence. Out
upon it!
Rev. Andrew L. Stone, of Park street
Church, voted to violate the charier, by de
claring that it is “illegal” to admit negroes
into the Order. We are surprised at this
act. This gentleman has uttered bold words
in favor of “Liberty, Equality, and Fratern
ity.” He was also called upon to act, and he
shows that it easier for some rqon to preach
than to act up to their professions. It is
easier to utter brave words than to act brave
deeds.
The anti-slavery men are generally friends
of temperance. Thousands of them have
joined the Ordei of the Sons of Temperance.
They did not think that this Order was to be
converted into an instrumentality to
and Jegrade a class of men among
are already degraded and oppressed. We
are glad to know that William A. White
boldly and manfully denounced this act and
left the division. All honor to the gix tjfee
men who had the courage to be true*io p'Wi
ciplc and duty.— Emancipator Rep.
LCr' The New Comet is now faintly visible
to the naked eye, in the constellation Ursa
Minor. It will continue to approach the
earth until the middle of July, when it will
altainfK minimum distance from us of about
thirty-eight millions of miles, or less than
one half it# present distance. As it is also
appioaching the Sun, it xtll become'five or
six times brighter than it now is.
On the Uih of July it will be seen a few
degrees to tiie west of the bright star Arctu
rus, in the constellation Bootes. Moving
rapidly to the South, it will pats near the
star Spica Virginis on the 23d of July and
will soon after descend below the southed
horizon.
As it is already fast increasing in bright
ness, it will probably be distinctly visible to
the naked eye during the middle of July.
The Colored Home.— The pat.ons of the
Colored Home, celebrated the tenth anniver
sary of this excellent and praiseworthy inst
tution, on Tuesday afternoon, in the new and
handsome building lately erected on Sixty-
Fifth-street, between First Avenue and
Avenue A. The spacious rooms were crowd
ed w jth the friends and patrons of the Institu
tion. After the riding of the annual re
port, which gave a gratifying account T>f the
present prosperity of the Colored Home,
several appropriate addressee were delivered
»y a number of gentlemen present on the
rccasaion. The Home is one of the most
neritorious charities of the city. It extends
he helping hand to a class whose social de
iression is apt to deprive them of the very
ympalhy that depression gives the occasion
or; and it i* admirably managed, and has ac
tomplished much good. N. Y. Evangelist.
Virginia—Effects of Slavery.
Horace Greeley has been Ira Telling in the
Old Dominion visiting her Gold-Mines. He
gives the following sad picture of the State
that boasts of being the mother of Steles and
of statesmen:
“The soil has long subjected to the
wretched cultivation to which Virginia is
I pre-eminent—exhausted by crop afterjerop o!
Corn or Wheat without fertilizing —‘nigger-
ed out’—and then thrown up and allowed to
f return lazily into forest. At this moment.
not one-fourth of the soil in the counties 1
have visited is under any sort of cultivation.
while the portion cultivated is hut wietchedly
I skinned over. Not one-eighth of what the
country ought to produce is produdted, al
though (apart from a few gold-mines) Agri
culture is the sole business carried on. Such
an entire dearth of manufactories and me
chanic aits a Yankee can hardly realize: and
the churches and school-houses, scarce a:
best are not equal to Dutch Barns. Th*
schools are all private, and I wish the admi
rers of the Voluntary System of Education
would corns here and see it in operation. I
think not half the children (out of the few and
straggling villages) attend school as much as
three months per annum, and many of those
who do have to ti avel from two to three miles,
often overtaken in the long stretenes of woods
by violent thunder storms, and compelled to
ford suddenly swollen torrents at the immi
nent peril of drowning. Of tw'enty streams
that you will cross in the course of a days’
ride not two will have any sort of bridges,and
this is a country which has been well settled
for more than a cen'ury, and was probably
almost as populous in Washington’s prime as
it now is! No work, or next to none, is done
on the roads, which are consequently all bui
impassable except after days of bright, dry
weathei. Indolence, improvidence, and ig
norance of the main comforts of civilized life
are displayed in the squalid, narrow, wretch
ed log tenements which mainly serve for
habitations—and on nearly everything else.
Yet what Virginia will bear to be told of the
‘peculiar’ cause of all these evils and miser
ies? He knows that if he will but open his
eyes; but he loves the old ways of idleness
and unlhrift, and, while he perceives their
miseries,, refuses to acknowledge them even
to h inself.
This should be a joyous, populous, thrifty,
wealthy region. It has the 6itn of Greece,
the sky of Italy. Man has known no heal
thier clime, no purer atmosphere. The toil
naturally fertile, and easily cultivated; there
are and limber in abundance,
and the Gold-Mines must soon create exien
sive and steady Home' Markets. A lovelier
land lies not beneath the summer noen: nor
one more inviting to effort; yet you ride for
miles and miles through forests of oak and
pine which serve hut as covers for game,
though equal in beauty and fertility to the
Ducal parks of England. And in the midst
of these interminable forests you will fre
quently pass the falling chimney, the scraggy
apple free, the weedy patch of grass and
briers, which tejl where the home of a family
once nestled. The grave has claimed a part
of them; the suivivers are in Alabama, Tex
as, Illinois and California—anywhere, so that
they may earn a livelihood without humilia
tion in the eves of their companions of their
childhood and the sharers of the follies w hich
account downright labor of the hands ihe
pro(>er vocation of slaves and therefore dis
honorable of freemen.
Adieu, land of buried Greatness! I eould
not think otherwise than regretfully of the
soil that embosoms the ashes of Washington
and Patrick Henry. Nay, I will think hope
fully, trustingly ai™ It must be that Vir
ginia is even now ,n since preparing to shake
off the incubus that stifles her energies. O
that her Statesmen about to assemble in con
vention to revise her constitution could rise
above the blighting prejudices of the law,
and decree that, “From and after the Fourth
of July, eighteen hundred and seventy six,
there shall be no slavery in Virginia.
Anti-Slavery Convention.
A Christian Anti slavery Convention, call
ed together by a few of the ministers in
Ottawa and its vicinity, was held in the latter
part of the last month, at that city, which
was well attended, and presided over by Rev.J
Chauncey Cook. The opening sermon was 1
preached by Rev. Owen Lovejoy, and a
series of resolutions, drafted by a Commit
tee consisting of Messrs. McArthur, Love
joy, Barrett, and Steele, was presentedTand
adopted, on the subject of the
church to slavery, which was as
Whereas, we believe slavery to be
Iff fearful magnitude—an impious invasion of
human right*—and whereas the chuich of
was instituted for the purpose of op
jgß all sin, and has the power by generat-
Htpjrhealthful public sentiment to secure
right political action, so that no power could
sustain slavery in the face of its combined op
position, and as its present position tends to
strengthen those political influence# which
result in oppressive enactments, therefore:
1. Resolved, That the Religious organiza
tions—Churches—Ecclesiastical bodies—and
Missionary Associations -who do uot array
their influence against American slavery, are
tesponsible for its existence and continuance
with all its horrors and abominations; and all
those who are in connection and ’fellowship
with those bodies are individually partaker#
in the guilt.
2. Resolved, That the light which sixteen
years’of extended and f aithful discussion has
thrown upon the subject of human rights,
has brought the churches and great religious
organizations into a posi'ion w’here they must
either abjpre American slavery by disfellow
shiping, those who practice or defend it; or
forfeit all claim to the and to
acortlUtent regard for
tenets of an evangelical faith.
3. Resolved, That no legislative enact
ments can make it wiong to aid in the escape
of fugitives slaves from bondage. And in the
event the bill now pending before the United
States Senate for the recapture of fugitive
slaves beemtes a law: we shall feel under ob
ligations ityobey God rather than man, disre
garding its requirement#.
The proposal to form a permanent ecclesi
astical organization on anti-slavery principles,
was fully discussed, and referred to a com
mittee-of five, to digest some plan for the
purpose, to report at at a meeting (to which
this was adjourned) to be held at Ottawa on
the thitd Tuesday of September next.-—AW’
Evangelist
An Incident of ihe Si.ave Trade.—A
gentleman lately from Missouri, relates to us
the following incident: A slave-holder in the
southern part of Missouri, started for Califor
nia, taking with him a slave whom he had
promised should accompany him to the mines,
and then have an opportunity of earning
enough to purchase Ins liberty and that of his
wife and his children. The master proceed
ed as far as St. Louis, and there placed him
in a slave pen and sold him for $750. The
agreement between the master and slave was,
as the latter related it to our informant, that
he should him to the mines, and
work for hours every day, and have
the his time to dig on “hi# own
hook.” He was to pay his master eight hun
dred dollar# for his liberty, six hundred for
his wite’effcnd tour hundred each for his
:htldren. “My heart was high,” said
the negro as he related his story, “as I
thought of the proepect of becoming free, #nd
having my wife and children, but think how
felt.” and the teats rolled down his cheeks,
‘when massa sell me to get money to carry
aim to gold mines. Oh dare’er »o God for
ny massa, he no go to hebben when he die.”
‘The story .was heart rending,” says our
hiend, but he adds, “it is a scene of every
lay life among slave trader#.”— Daily Wts
onsin.
The Catholic Mu 4 oa Sletery.
Amidst the developments which the vari
ous denominations of Protestants are making
of their views and position on the absorbing
subject of slavery, it is important to arcertain
The views of the large body of Roman Catho
lics, whose votes and influence are to have
not a little bearing upon the issue, at some
stage of its progress. This position has sel
dom been defined, they have had, on many
accounts, a reputation of a friendly attitude,
in reference to the subject, and which we
hoped really belonged to them. It would
seem, however, according to a late exposition
of the doctrine of the church, given by Rev.
Dr. Cammings at the Tabernacle, and to
which public attention had been invited as a
formal and authoritative expose of the Catho
lic position, that the Catholic Church takes
about the same ground as the Southern Pro
testant churches. She proposes to take no
ultra, rash or extreme ground—a model ol
conservatism in this as in all other reforms.
Christ’s command to render unto Cesar the
things that he Cesar’s, and Paul’s practical
comment thereon in sending a runaway slave
back to his master as a slave, are the key of
the Church’s doctrine on this point. “The
slavery of Christ’s and the Apostles’ day
could not have been violently abolished, with
out overthrowing the civil institutions and
jurisprudence of the times. No who'esale
edict of Abolition was thought of, since the
ruin it would have wrought would have been
for worse than tiie evil it sought to oveturn.
Christ and his Apostles never applied to
the bioad law of Christian justice.
The Church condemns cruelty and injustice;
but for slavery as an institution, independent
of isolated cases, she legislates h* Christian
charity; not in philanthropy—a term which
has been degraded to embrace all sorts of
wild and profitless ideas. The sum of the
Catholic doctrine, then, in regard to slavery
throughout the world, wan to preach obedi
ence to the slave, for the love of God—to the
master, kindness and mercy, in view of the
justice of God.” Wc doubt if Bishop Hugea
would have taken such ground, but it must
pass lor the present, as the doctrine of Catho
lics on slavery, and they are welcome toil.—
Yew Nork Evangelist.
Sons of Temperance. —This body made
a strong demonstration in this city, on Tues
day, 11th instant. The Bee noticing it
says.—
The procession consisted of between four
and five thousand persons. The most beau
tiful and interesting feature of the pageant
was the Cadets of Temperance—a son of
cold water army of boys, organized under
similar laws to those which govern the
Sons. These boys are not only pledged
against the use of iiquor, but also profane
language and tobacco. They are organized
under what is called ‘Sections.’ We no
ticed with pleasure among the Cadets, a sec
tion of colored boys. They looked as neat
and prim as any in the ranks, and appeared
perfectly delighted. The record of this one
tact is proof that the Cadets are an ‘independ
ent order.’
While the speaking was going on, a gen
tleman upon the platform called us ont one
side, and whispered the following in our ear:
“‘Mr. Patterson, of New Orleans, desires
that the reporters will not mention the fact
that colored hoys walked in the procession, for
fear it might injure the reputation of the Or
der!'
Mr. Patterson is informed that such re
quests may find listeners south of Mason ard
Dixon’s line, but he has probably discovered
by this time that he ha* not lound silent lis
teners north of that latitude. We learn that
several gentlemen of lender nerves, on see
ing the happy little colored fellows in the
procession, quietly slipped their collars off,
aud left the ranks. Thete is no accounting
for taste in some folks.
Courage consists not in hazarding with
out fear, but in being resolutely minded in a
ii)Bt cause.— Cicero
MARRIED:
In Philadelphia, at the house oCThom*s White,
Esq-, on Tuesday tlie 18ih hiii.Hi. JOHN DICK,
of Rochester, to Miss ELIZA GRIFFITHS, of
f. union, by ti e Rev, Eugkhio Kincaid, Mi?-
nionttry to Burnoah.
INVENTION OF LITHOGRAPHY.
Lithography, or the art of printing
on stone, owes its origin to Germany—
the country which gave birth to the
great art of printing with types, and to
which w* are al 9o indebted for many
other discoveries of value to mankind.
The inventor of the lithographic art,
Aloys Senefelder, was the son of a
poor actor at Prague, where he was
born in 177 t. The family having re
moved to Munich, the young Senefel
der there received some education, and
when it became time to think of a
means of living, he, like many way
ward youths, resorted to literature as a
profession; of course with want of suc
cess—for no man can begin to live all
at once by authorcraft.
To add to the mortification of Aloys,
his father died, leaving a number of
children; and the only means ol provi
ding for the wants of his brothers and
sisters, as well as his own, was to go
on the stage. With an aching heart,
and an empty stomach, Aloys persona
ted courtiers revelling in luxury and
gaiety. When at the conclusion of en
tertainments he laid down his fine trap
pings at the theatre, he retired to a
miserable home to starve on a crust
and a pitcher of water. Two years
were passetktf) this life of privation and
anxiety. BW although misery, that
hideous phantom, or rather frightful re
ality, presented itselfcontinually to the
eyes of Aloys, poetry came like a con
soling angel to soothe his griefs, and
reanimate him with courage and hope.
For him, as an actor, the theatre had
lost all its illusions; but he still dreamt
of rendering his name famous in litera
ture, and acquiring reputation, which
some seek even in the cannon’s mouth.
But how to emerge from obscurity,
unless his writings are printed? Sen
efelder cogitated on this, to him, impor
tant question with conflicting emotions,
and at last resolved to be his own pub
lisher, and print with his own hand.
He was in possession of a few types,
hut not sufficient for a page, and was
too poor to purchase a press. No mat
ter; he could invent, without being
aware of it, stereotype; and his obser
vant mind, impelled by necessity, con
quered the rest.
The first proceeding to which Aloys
had recourse consisted in pouring seal
ing-wax into a soft mould, in which his
phrases were impressed by means of
moveable printing types. But the want
of strength in the tablets thus obtain
ed, and the impossibility of taking
proofs even by the slightest pressure,
determined him on engraving his cher
ished verses on copper. He had nev
er handled the burin, and was unac
quainted with the method of writing in
reverse, unskilled in modelling writing,
and unacquainted with nearly every
process made use of by engravers.
Still, he persevered, confiding for suc
cess in his firm resolution.
He set himself to the work; and hav
ing coated a copper-plate with a com
position intended to impede the action
of acid elsewhere than on the charac
ters to be written, he traced the first
few words which would either confirm
his hopes or destroy them for
When the plate was finished, he car
ried it to a printer, and begged him to
‘puli’ a proof. What was his joy on
seeing the impression—imperfect, yet
full of promise; and, on the other hand,
with what pain did he efface it to com
mence a new attempt, viewing with
alarm the diminishing thickness of the
plate, which he was unabled to re
place!
To produce a new surface, Senefel
der rubbed the plate with a block of
stone, which, however, was too course
to give the requisite polish. Brought
to a stand by this defect, he remember
ed having seen in his boyhood on the
banks of the Isar certain stones which
he hoped would better effect his pur
pose, and at once he hastened to the
spot.
One idea nearly always leads to
another: of the sight of the stones,
which previously had served, only as
flooring materials, Senefelder concei
ved the project of making use of them
tor his writing exercises; and with him
the thought of an attempt and its exe
cution were the same thing. He im
mediately busied himself squaring and
polishing these Kelheim-stones-so call
ed from the name of the place where
they are found; and at length engra
ved them by the aid of acid, and pre
pared a suitable ink from wax, soap,
and lamp black, v'hich enabled him to
judge of the result of his labor.
In all this there is nothing particu
larly remarkable. Senefelder scarce
ly went out of the beaten track, and
his progress was slower than it might
have been had his glyphic and chemi
cal knowledge been a little more ex.
tensive. Long before this day men
had engraved on copper and carved
stone, but he was the first in Europe to
conceive and executo the idea of eo
graving a stone in relief—an ingenious
and fertile idea, the foundation of lith
ography, and source of the improve
ments and perfection which it has
since experienced. The following is
Senefelder's account of his discovery:
*1 had just smoothed a slab of stone
so as to coat it with gum, and continue
my attempts at writing in reverse, when
my mother entered, and asked me to
write out for bet a list of th« linen she
bad prepared for the wash; the wash
erwoman was waiting impatient while
we looked everywhere for a piece of
white paper. It to happened that my
whole stock was exhausted, having
been used for proofs, and my ordinary
ink was dried up. As there was no
one in the bouse who could be sent to
buy what he wanted, I took the notion
to write the list on the stone which I
had just levelled, making use of my ink
composed of wax, soap, and lampblack,
intending to copy it as soon as some pa
per was brought. When at length I
wished to wipe of what was written,
the idea struck me all at once to see
what would become of the characters
traced with my wax-ink, on pouring
acid over the stone; and also to try
whether they could not be blackened
as types or woodcuts are blackened,
and afterwards printed. The attempts
that I had already made had acquaint
ed me with the action of acid relatively
to the depth and thickness of the incis
ions, and led me to believe I should not
be able to produce the letters well in
relief. However, as the writing was
coarse enough to resist the acid for a
time, I went immediatelyto work; and
surrounding the stone with wax, after
the manner of copper-plate engravers,
I poured dilute acid over it to the depth
of two inches, and left it to stand for
five minutes. On examining the stone
at the end of that time, I found the let
ters in relief about the thickness of a
card. Some strokes, which probably
had been written too fins, or not recei
ved sufficient ink, were slightly in
jured. The other had lost little or
nothing of iheir breadth, which gave
me the hope that writing, well traced,
could be produced in greater relief.’
Senefelder then goes on to describe the
various modes he took to ink the form,
none of which succeeded until he pre
pared ‘the lid of a box very level, by
covering it with thicknesses of cloth.’
The enterprising artist now fondly
imagined that the obstacles in the way
of publishing his poetic thoughts were
removed: he was impatient to give them
to the world; but he was poor. He
has no possessions which could be con
verted into money the household goods
belonged to his mother. By and by he
remembered that to enter the army as
a substitute for another will assure him
a bounty of 200 florins, and with this
sum he can purchase sufficient materi
al to start a small printing-office.
Here, again, he was disappointed; his
Bohemian birth disqualified him for the
Bavarian service.
Deprived even of this bitter resource
Senefelder addressed himself to Mr.
Gleissner, the court musician, and pro
posed to print his musical works. The
proposition was accepted, and M.
Gleissner, in addition, consented to
advance a moderate sum, with which
the struggling Aloys commenced litho
graphic printing in Munich. Sooh af
ter, the works of the friendly musician
were issued from presses also invented
by Senefelder. A copy of the first book
was presented to the Elector of Bava
ria, who, in return sent a hundred
florins to the new printer.
The news of his success soon made it
self heard and the artist’s reputation in
creased as his labours continued, when
a rival started up to claim priority ol
invention, Senefelder's right was how
ever, satisfactorily established, and he
was commisioned by M. Steiner, derec
tor of public instruction, to print a col
lection of songs and chants for the use
of schools. The results surpassed the
expectation of the new pulron. One
object especially excited his attention—
a small vignette, placed at the head of
one of the chants, and which, although
ill executed, convincingly proved that
chemical printing would reproduce
both music and design. Full of the
idea thus suggested, M. Steiner re
commended Senefelder to engage the
services of skillful draughtsmen, so as
to substitute correct drawings and good
taste for the rude illustrations generally
found in popular literature. And from
this beginning we may date the litho
graphic designs and sketches now so
widely diffused.
Shortly afterwards, having to print a
book of prayers in italic characters,
and but little experienced in that style
of writing, Senefelder succeeded, alter
numerous trials, in making autograph
ic ink and paper. Once possessed of
this double secret, instead of writing
himself upon the stone, he employed a
more skilful hand to form the charac
ters upon the new paper with the new
ink; and then, by a simple and ingeni
ous process, he transferred the writing
from the paper to the stone, and was
thus enabled to obtain an almost unlim
ited number of impressions from the
original; and in this way what has been
called 'autography' was invented.
Senefelder wa9 now more than ever
on the road of discovery; and, as the
9equei showed, he did not stop until he
had carried his art to such a pitch of
perfection, that artists coming after him
had scarcely added a new process to
his instructions. ‘I remarked,’ he ob
serves in his narrative, 'that paper
written upon with lithographic ink, and
well dried, when dipped in water with
which were a few drops of oil, took up
this oil on all the written portion, while
the rest of the paper, especially when
it had been dipped in gum-water, or
starch-water much diluted, remained
free of oil. This made me think of
trying, the effect of paper printed with
ordinary printing ink. 1 tore a leaf
from an old book, and passed it through
a weak solution of gum, and laying it
on the stone, I took a sponge charged
with a thin oil colour, and rubbed it all
over the paper.
'The printed characters took the
colour at once, while the paper remain
ed white. I then placed another white
sheet above, put under the press, and
obtained an excellent copy of the print
ed sheet—although reversed. It would
be possible by this method to reprint
old books without great cost or even
editions of new ones.'
Here we have evidence that the in
vention of anastatic printing, which
was trumpeted as a new and extraor
dinary discovery a few years since,
ivas in fact due to Senefelder. It is,
lowever remarkable, that, being thus
icquainted with the process of trans
ferring old impressions, he did not think
of applying them to the stone. This
s one of those curious oversight* to
vbich all men are liable, and for which
t is not easy to give an explanation.
Still, the persevering artist went on
rora trial to trial, from deduction-to
leduclion, and at last discovered the
nethod of drawing on atone with
crayons, to engrave without the use ol
acid and even to execute the earliest
essays in ebromo-lithography.
Arrived at this point, Scnefeldei
could regard his labors with legiti
mate pride. Chance effected nothing
for his fame—for chance is a word
void of signification, invented to con
ceal our inability to discover the se
cret connection of effects and causes:
the artist was inspired only by his ge
nius and his poverty.
Being of a generous and communi
cative disposition, Senefelder revealed
his processes to learners, who after
ward* employed their knowledge to
their master’s detriment. In 1779, tc
secure himself and those dependent on
him a share of the profit to be derived
from his long-continued exertions, he
associated two of his brothers with
himself in partnership, and petitioned
the king, Maximilian Joseph, to confei
on him the exclusive privilege of litho
graphic printing. A patent for fifteen
years had just been made out, when one
of the chief editors of music in Bavaria
offered to Aloys a sum of 2000 florins
if he would teach him his art, and re
move to Offenbach to establish a litho
graphic press. The proposals were
joyfully accepted, and three months la
ter the new business was in full activ
ity
This success led to wider views, ant
Senefelder was invited to join in i
scheme for the simultaneous introduc
tion of lithography into the four princi
pal capitals of* Europe. In further
ance of this scheme he visited London
bnt left England after a short stay
without having accomplished his ob
ject.
From this period Senefelder appears
to have been engaged in a series o
speculations more or less unfortunate
We find him again at Offenbach, ther
at Vienna, afterwards at Pottendorf
where he successfully applied his in
vention to the printing of cottons, ant
began to dream of fortune, when Na
poleon’s continental system came tc
prevent its realization. He returnee
to Munich, and found that his brother!
had sold their business for an annua
pensiqp of 700 florins. The govern
ment refused to confirm the privilege!
of his patent; but eventually, consid
ering his merits, and the benefits tha
had accrued from his invention, the)
(1810) appointed him inspector of lith
ography) with an annual salary of fif
teen hundred florins. Senefelder hat
not forgotten his first friend Gleisner;
and impelled by a feeling of gratitude,
solicited and obtained for him a com
j f irtable post in ope of the governmenl
offices.
Thus tranquil as to the future, Sen
efelder married; but his wife died soon
after'their union. He waited thret
years, and chose another—one ever)
way qualified to become the compan
ion of a man of genius. In 1819 he went
to Paris with another invention: a sorl
of pasteboard, intended to supersede
the heavy stones required in lithgraph
ic priming. Not finding it answer, he
adopted plates of zinc, with which sr
much has subsequently been effected,
Alter a lime he returned to Bavaria,
living tranquilly on the salary attach
ed to his office, and occupying him
self in painting, in which he obtainec
considerable skill. He was thus en
gaged when disease overtook him; he
became blind, and died in 1834, leav
ing a widow and a son to inherit his
fame.
Senefelder affords an interesting ex
ample of what may be accomplished
by persevering thought and industry.
He possessed great kindness of heart,
and his integrity wasunimpeachable.
His artist-feeling was vivid and pow
erjkfcand to this cause may be traced
tjaHilure of his commercial specula
(iMm he thought more of excellence ol
work than reward. A bust to his
memory stands among the other sculp
tured worthies of the magnificent Wtm
halla of Munich.
Affected Dignity. —There is a
waif—floating about in the sea of print,
without an owner—which is as full of
truth as an egg is of meat: The best'
proof of a vulgar man is to be found in
the quantity of dignity that he wraps
himself up in.—ln the opinion of such'
men, the only way to set a proper value
on yourself, is to treat with contempt
every body else. Such men are gen
erally rich and very ignorant. The
biggest feeling man we ever knew was
a swelling blockhead, who imagined
that the tragedy of Hamlet was written
by Damon and Pythias, and who could'
not tell, without consulting his vade
mecutn, whether Shakspeare was the
author of or'Macbeth was the
author of Smmspeare. As a geifteral
thing, your dignified men are great
asses. They keep at a distance, that
their neighbors may not discover what
counterfeits they are. Across the
street, a galvanic watch appears to be
bullion. Men are like ships—the more
they contain, the lower they c#ry their
heads.
There is one circumstance I would
preach up, morning, noon, and night,
to young persons, for the management
of their understanding. Whatever you
are from nature, keep toil; never de
sert your ownjine of talent. If Pro
vidence only intended you to write
posies for rings, or mottoes for twelfth
cakes keep to posies and mottoes; a
good motto for a twelfth-cake is moye
respectable than a villainous epic poem
in twelve books. Be what nature in
tended you for, and you will succeed;
be anything else, and you will be ten
thousand times worse than nothing.—
Sydney Smith.
ICP The friends of Col. Benton, in
Missouri, steadily refuse inform any
connection with the of
the party—preferring defeat by them
selves to success with such a union.
We like their spirit, and whetlpr they
succeed or not, theircourse must event
uate in the complete overthrow of the
nullification party in Missouri.
Slaves Liberated— made rich. —Mrs. Sa
bra, relict ofUie late William Brown, died ai
her residence in this county, a few miles from
Brunswick, m Friday night the 3d instant,
at the advanced age of some 75 years. By
her demise sixteen or seventeen slaves are
free and become the heirs of the eatate and
plantation, and in such a way we learn, that
they can never alienate the land.—Bruns
wicker. 