anti-slavery in scotland
the scottish press gives the following re- j
port of a discussion that recently took place in:
the synod of the 1 ailed presbyterian church
of scotland. the subject of american sla-:
very came up on the rolling of a letter front
the associate reformed church of america,
addressed to the united presbyterian synod of i j
scotlahd, accompanying a preamble and res-j t
elution affirming tile oneness ol scntiment.be-,
tween the american ahd* scottish chutehes. 1
after leading the letter and resolution— 1
j t
mr. thomas stated that thiscommu-'
meat ion had had a prominent place
signed to it in the business ot the syn
od; from the conviction that the matter
would very likely be sent to a commit-
tee to say what ought to be done in re
gard to it.
mr. benton. kelso, said they must,
ail have listened with interest to this
communication from a branch of the
church in america, that had peculiar:
claims to their parental regard, but he!
dared sav that all w ho attended to the j
perusal of the document must have de-j
sideraled what they had not lound,;
namely, some expression on the sub-1
ject of slavery. (approbation.) there’
was a total—an ominous, and he might j
perhaps add. a disgraceful silence on
that point. they, as a church, stood;
committed honorably, and solitary as a 1
preshyterian church, and he hoped
clearly to the position ol holding no
fellowship with slave-holding, or slave
countenancing churches. (applause.)
he accorded with the proposal of the
clerk of bills, that they should appoint
a committee to whom this letter should
be referred, and lie threw out these ob
servations that, whatever committee
might he appointed, they might view
the matter in connection w ith this fixed
position of the church; and, while he
thought they should return a christian
and a friendly answer, they should re
turn a faithful answer in regard to this
matter.
mr. john monk, leslie, said, al
though ins view was that an answer of
peace should be returned to this com
munication, they should also return an
answer of remonstrance regarding the!
position and principles of that church, j
he should have wished for more dis-f
tinct information respecting their views
and position on the question, of one
man holding property in another man,
and having in his power to carry him
to the market and sell him. 1 hey j
the united presbyterian) could not
hold any communion with parties
holding these principles and adopting
these practices of admitting to the com
munion of a christian church, and to*
all the privileges of christianity those:
who hold a property iu man, and those
who, though professedly followers of
the lord je.su* christ and u part of his
body, used their fellow-men as-beasts
of burden, and treating them as the
lower animal?
uk. yoi no, perth, very much con
curred iu the sentiments just spoken.
he felt deeply the radical defect in the
communication, but in musing over it,
it had struck him us a very providen
tial opening to take some steps in that*
matter. here was something inviting
them forward as a synod to make a
statement, and perhaps make a remon
strance at a date in the history of that
abominable traffic, when they would
have more force than at any prior date
of their dealing with the question. he
confessed he rejoiced in the oppor
tunity; and he believed the committee
would suggest such a reply to the let
ter as would at least show their faithful
ness and exonerate them as a synod,:
the north star.
and very probably do more. that
church in america waa not a aery large
one, and he had an impression that it
would be found that thin branch of the
church in america were lean under the
influence of that ayatem than many
others; and they were probably in a
position to be dealt with by them.
their haada perhaps were not ao fool
as some others, and be did anticipate
in the<act of these providential circum
stances, their being called on to do
something which might show their aver
sion to that system, and which might
put them into a communication that
might be uaeful to themselves, and more
useful to the church in america about
some collateral matters.
mr. pringle, newcastle,, said he
very much agreed with dr. young as
to the course they ought to take on
thi-i question in regard to their relations
with the churches in america. he
hoped no step would be proposed or
undertaken by any individual member
which would have the slightest tendency
to stultify themselves as to their recog
nition of, or associating with american
churches, and that they would act pre
cisely on the faith of the declaration
adopted by the court in regard to com
munication with the churches in ame
rica. but when they looked at the
date of the communication (november
1*17,) it was not to he overlooked that
the position of this great question in
america was at this moment in a very
different and a much more hopeful state
than it was when that letter was writ
ten. he was sure it would he satis
factory to each one of them to know
that there was at this moment going on
a movement amongst the leading
churchmen and the leading statesmen
in america in that great controversy;
and whereas, but a few years ago, any
attempt to introduce the question would
have been put down by force, the pub
lic and even the congress were now
compelled to entertain the question, and
it had been proposed very recently to
take up the question whether congress
should, by its own legislation, take the
first step in the matter by the emanci
pation of the slaves in the state of col
umbia—a state which was, strictly
speaking their own. there the slave’s
cries were within the reach of the hall
during debate, and often might be
heard the sound of the lash inflicted on
the slave, and the cry of torture wrung
from the victim, keeping in view, con
nected with the date of the communica
tion. whose silence on the subject ot
slavery he deprecated as much as mr.
kenton, that the churches felt now com
pelled to consider the question, he
thpught the best course would be to ap
point a committee to consider fte ietter
ahd. correspond with the ad
dressing" them, and also to consider
whether they could recognise a sister
hood with the church and maintain that
correspondence, and let the committee
report.
mr. kennedy, selkirk, said
there was even in the
churches in america a strong preju
dice against people of color. they did
not use them as christians and equals,
but held them as inferior in many
senses of the word; and he had often
thought it was a great blot on the
christian character of the churches in
the non-slaveholding states, that they
did not recognise people of color as
equal to the whites. he would like to
know if that prejudice prevailed in the
church in question.
mr. thomas said the main object of
the committee would be to inquire into
j facts, and consider what answer they
could give to this letter, and shape
their answer according to what they
ascertained. now there were authen
tic documents in the possession of the
church bearing upon the subject. up
to 1847, there were only two bodies in
america that absolutely repudiated sla
very—the associate reformed church,
and the old reformers; but there was
a dispute that took place, and was now
going on, whether the associate re
formed church was entitled to claim
the character of being one of these non
slavery churches. they did claim this
by profession, but they did not do it ju
dicially and though the synod of the
south was implicated, they said that
svnod was independent in its action.
the other synods, however, acted with
it in various ways, but they were less
tainted, if not quite free from taint,
than other of the churches in america,
with the exceptions noticed.
a committee was then appointed to
consider the letter, and to report.
heetingb in new york
vou can scarce imagine a more
motley spectacle than was presented by
i our city the last week. it was the
grand pentecost of the churches; de
vout and zealous men from the most
distant borders were gathered in our
jerusalem; and if no cloven tongues of
flame sat in the midst of them, there
f was every variety of utterance, from
s the polished eloquence of the classical
i bostonian, to the rude speech of the
s i emancipated slave trom kentucky.
the weather was one of those long
drizzly, chilling joint and marrow
searching rains, with which the month
of may is often ushered in, in our ami
able climate; and it required all the pa
ticnce of job, and the zeal of one of the
n boanerges, to brave the. unkindness of
j the elements, for the oratory ot an an
i! nnal meeting. few, however, showed
the white feather on this occasion, and
t every place of meeting was crowdedwith
i unseated listeners, from the huge di-
i i meustons of the broadway tabernacle,
;jto the little negro chapel in marion
street.
in the midst of this array of piety and
•j benevolence, you saw the tnfamoua
1 placards on every conspicouus place,
j with which it was attempted to enkindle
right is of no sex-truth is of no color—god is the father of us alu and all we are brethren
the passions of the populace, and arouse
them to deeds of violence against a por
tion of their fellow-citizens. the steps
of men seemed checked by some unseen
power on that fatal da/; the/ scarce!
spoke above their breath; every heart!
portended some fearful catastrophe;'
and as the night began to fall, the
sound of military preparation mingled
with the voices of the anniversary speak-:
era, and soon the assemblages in the
vicinity of astor place were thrown in
to confusion by the hoarse and horrible
uproar of the gathering mob. such a
union of the noblest purposes and the
most infernal deeds, of good men intent
on the accomplishment of extensive
good to humanity, and of furious mis- 1
creants filled with the worst spirit of
mai}*aity vengear. was never be-,
fore witnessed in our city.
the anniversary meetings of the
week were attended with less excite
ment, perhaps with less interest, than
usual; but still the reports of the var
ious societies were, almost without ex
ception, of a very encouraging charac
ter, and their leading advocates appear
ed gifted with zeal and devotedness to
their great purposes.
among the sermons of the week,
that of i)r. barnes, (or albert barnes,
i should say, as he persistently eschews
the d. d.,) of philadelphia, before the
home missionary society, w>as most
worthy of notice. it was an elaborate,
argumentative reply, in fact, to the
views presented last year, on the same
occasion, by rev. dr. bushnell, in re
gard to the progress of civilization at
the west. mr. barnes has a heavy,
dreamy, unconscious manner, more re
sembling a soliloquy than a popular ad
dress; but, in spite of this, there is an
air of such earnestness and sincerity
in what he puts forth, there is such evi
i dence of careful and profound thought,
that he easily takes possession of his
audienefe, and irresistibly stamps them
with his own convictions.
the american anti-slavery society
drew together a large, very attentive
and orderly, though as usual, some
what promiscuous assemblage in the
tabernacle. there were not so many
antagonistic elements in the meeting as
has heretofore been the case; the com
pany of scoffers, idlers, and disturbers
of the peace, was reduced almost to in
visibility; while the pervading tone of
the meeting, though it could hot but be
bold, decided, and uncompromising,
was far from the extravagance and of
fensive denunciations which have so
often left an unfavorable impression on
the minds of considerate,.discriminating
spectators. parker pillsburjr spoke
like a christian—strotig, free, direct—
boldly rebuking thfc churches for their
criminal apathy anff
half of the slave, but abstaining frpm,
those flippant innuendoes whiefi hafce
led many to accuse him of irreverence,
and some, of infidelity. the great at- 1
traction of this meeting, however, as,
well as that of two meetings of the
anti-capital-punishmeat societies, wqj
the flowing finished classical eloquence
of wendell phillips. i heard it remark
ed, by rather an eccentric critic, that 1
phillips was admirable, perfect in his
kind, but was altogether destitute of the r
row’dy element in his composition—that,
he did not know how to use either to
baco or profane language. the latter
accomplishments, however are of such,
easy attainment, that one cannot great
ly regret their absence tn the distin
guished massachusetts orator. it is true
that phillips never forgets his taste or!
his breeding; he is always the gentle-■
man, however vehement, or even fierce,
his denunciations; and you might look
in vain, during his most tempestuous
harangues, for a haw in his enuncia
tion, his emphasis, or his illustrations,
in the arrangement of his sentences, or
the construction of his argument. but,
this very characteristic gives him an
immense power with a popular audi
ence.
it is a great mistake to suppose that
the people, even the most uncultivated
and ignorant, are fond of coarseness,
vulgarity, or any expression of bad
taste, in a public speaker. they de
mand strength, vivacity, wit, feeling;
but they like it all the better when pre
sented in a beautiful form; and when
left to their choice, prefer the graceful
drapery of a masterly artist, to the
grotesque costume of a harlequin.
the slang of david crockett is list
ened to with curiosity by all classes,
for any manifestation of life, originali
ty, native power, is interesting; but
after all, it is the polished eloquence of
henry clay that commanns the most
permanent influence, and, in the long
run, the most universal admiration.
for my part, i cannot but rejoice that
such a mau as phillips, with his
classical taste, his thorough education,
his courtly manners, his fine, spontane
ous eloquence, is found among the
ranks who are coatending for univer
sal freedom, social reform, and the
advancement of humanity. i perceive
that he made a very strong impression
at all the meetings whe be spoke, and
that even those who are most at war
with hia principles could not withhold
their testimony from the charms of his
eloquence and the tnanly dignity of his
bearing.— ca rr .vsf. ere.
f.tiitorial connerpomlesce of u»e x y. triliane.
land-selling—tennessee—
r characteristics.
1 sandusky, ohio, may 20, 1819.
1 j there is no other class whose posi
i' tion so strongly appeals to the sytnpa
(hies of the honest and humane as the
j poor immigrants who from europe in
i thousands are seeking homes on our
shores, or who are trying to escape
1 the slavery and constant anxiety of the
condition of hirelings in our own older
communities by removing to iaods o(
i their own in the now states or in the
rochester, n. y., friday, june 8, 1849.
more thinly settled portions of the older.
if there be one business which more
than others requires the constant
watchfulness of the generous, it is that
of land-selling—the exaction of mo
ney from poor and ignorant men for
patches of distant wilderness which
they have never seen, sad which they
will hardly have ability to escape from,
if, when they shall have reached them,
they prove utterly unsuited to their ne
cessities and unlike the representations
which beguiled them into purchasing.
in the-light of these manifest truths,
i ask attention to the following ex
pose:
for some time back, systematic and
not wholly unsuccessful efforts have
been made in new-york to find pur
chasers for wild lands in tennessee
most of them in or near the region
which i am about to describe. meet
ing an old and trusty friend yesterday
in the cars hitherward from cincinnati,
and learning that he was on his return
from visiting some of these tennessee
wild lands, i sought information of
i him respecting their value and charac
ter. and this is the substance of his
account of them:
my friend went out as the agent ot
a relative in boston, who had been
constrained to accept a conveyance ot
25,000 acres of these tennessee lands
in satisfaction of a debt of $b,ooo due
him by a bankrupt now deceased. the
lands are situated in fentress county,
on the north line of the state (next to
kentucky,) and were duly laid down
on a map as lying in the valley of the
cumberland river, with the cumber
land mountains in the distance, and the
routes of the two great rail-roads
which are expected to lead from ten
nessee to the atlantic, through georgia
and south carolina respectively, cros
sing each other directly in the midst ot
them. such were a part of the land
selling representations. now for the
facts:
in the first place, nearly the whole
of fentress, and of several counties
east and west of it, lies, not beside,
but upon the cumberland range oi
mountains, which substantially divide
the better portions of tennessee from
those of kentucky. the average
elevation of this county is some 2,000
feet above the cumberland river,
which barely skirts it op the north.
jamestown, the county seat, is directly
on the summit of the mountains, which
is broad and. sufficiently level, but
some 4,000 feet above tide-water. the
soil is a thin, poor, gravelly sand, an
nually impoverished by burning over
»in order to destroy the leaves and* fin
derbrush so as to afford range for the
stuntedrhogs and sheep which are the
main subsistence of tne peopld. tnd*
timber is almost entirely pitch pine
and scrub oak of varie.-
ty known as black jack* and no man
acquainted with timber need be told
that such timber grows only on the
poorest and most hopeless soils. thefe
is a little chestnut, which tells the
same story. the substratum is entire
ly sandstone, rising from the limestone
valleys running some twenty to
miles on either side by very steep,
often precipitous ascents of three hun
dred to a thousand feet each, which
could only be overcome by a railroad
at an enormous cost, if they could be
at ail; but in fact there has been no
serious intention of running any rail
road within many miles of this county.
the crossing of the two great rail
roads in fentress is simply a land
speculators’ swindle, designed to entrap
the credulous and unwary.
there is of course very little hus
bandry or thrift in such a region.
hunting is the chief reliance, there
being many deer in the scarcely broken
forests. tar-burning has been a con
siderable resource, in spite of the
remoteness of markets and the cost of
reaching them with a product so bulky
in proportion to its value, but it is now
nearly abandoned, either from exhaus
tion of the material or a diminished
price of the product. a very little
grain and a few vegtables are grown;
some flax also, from which and the
wool of their 9heep the people are
mainly clad in the coarsest home-spun.
the flesh of sheep, hog 9 and deer
form the principal food; the moun
taineer carrying his gun with him on
every occasion, just as the cit may
carry his cane. fighting and hunting
—traditions of indian conflicts and the
more recent glories of the mexican
1 war—the ability of the south to whip
the north— intermingled with accounts
of personal skill in deer-slaughtering
form the chief topics of masculine
conversation.
i yevy few’ slaves are held in the
mountain region, as they could not be
made profitable—indeed, the whole
population, white and black, ot james
town, the county seat of feutrew,
numbers exactly fifty-three while the
county may have twelve hundred to
two thousand—yet the devotion of the
i leaders of opinion to slaveiy is as fan
atical as if they were able to own
slaves—very likely, more so very
rarely seeing a newspaper and thoee
i they see being entirely of *e southern
loco foco school to which thev are
politically attached, their minds are
filled by the stump bareoguers whom
i politics occasionally send among them,
i with notions that the north is constant
ly plotting to subvert their constitution
imrighu, di»»l*e.h« lji..«i>, rt« 4
would l*e to owd
i'he, could effurd to. thue ute, .re
i taught to regurd *u tumue,. u
i the, cull indifferently eorepeum end
i people frwn the free wiu
dirtrurt end hatred hardly «t»u«d b,
their traditional bortdn, gw
to vote for democracy, fight nv slifi*
ry, repel all ‘foreign’ iotru««o. aad
,4,1,. .11 projecti of uuotattou aad
improvement, are the cardinal maxima
of these people. no burke, no met
ternich, no eldon,no autocrat nicholas,
could beat them at conservatism. ‘we
are.mountaineers, and attached to our
own ways, is the spirit of their res
ponse to all suggestion of improvement-
this people have many virtues—
courage, independence, patriotism,
frankness, hospitality, and general in
tegrity. should the country ever be
seriously menaced with invasion, every
cabin woild send forth its deadly rifle, j
every mountain-gorge its file of un
erring and death-despising marksmen.
we do not under-value them because
on many points we didely differ from
them. what we wish to make plain is
simply the impossibility that people ac
customed to a higher civilization should
be satisfied to lire as they do or should
make among them even the livelihood
with which they are contented. to
live there, one should be trained from i
babyhood to stop a flying deer at a
hundred yards, sighting the rifle at the
very instant of raising it from the!
ground. this county of fentress has j
probably (been settled some forty or
fifty years, by people who came in
when game and pitch were more abun
dant than now—who probably came
here from the atlantic slope of the;
alleghenies, in georgia or the caroli-i
nas. where their fathers had beenj
mountaineers before them. in this old
county there is not the beginning of a
church, and there is only preaching
once a month in the court house,
which cannot boast a pane of glass,
and which was in undisputed possession
of two sows and their litters of pigs
when my friend visited it. public,
schools there are none, and not more
than one private one in the county, if
any. very few dwellings have a pane
of glass, or even a sash for one—the
rude opening for light in one side o.
the log hut is closed with a ruder shut
ter, kept fastened by a rail leaning
against it from without. there are
girls thinking of marriage who never
saw a pane of glass. of course the
door of the hut is kept constantly open
for light, and the wind blowing in sends
the smoke every way through the nar
row tenement, rendering the process
of drying to a wet traveler anything
but agreeable. surrounded by good j
fuel, to be had close to the door for the i
cutting, the people probably suffer as
much from cold as the veriest poor ot
our northern cities.
there may be a saw-mfm in fentress,
though our friend ssw none, and no
auunbf the existence of any. a grist
mm (hf re probably is no*; and sead,
is ofteoest made of corn pounded in a
mortar. cojning into a region..
somewhat less forlorn, our informant
passed a grist-mill exhibiting some pe
culiarities. it consisted of a jingle
pair of stones surrounded by four posts
ten feet apart, supporting a rude roof.
this was the whole structure; the bags i
and toll-chest were disposed about the'
stones as they best might be. a rain
accompanied by strong wind would
probably soak half the concern; but
water is always added to meal in mak
ing bread, and they don’t keep meal
very long in this region.
our friend approached fentress (on
horseback) from the south, via nash
ville and journeyed thence northward,
to lexington, some hundred and fifty,
to two hundred miles. he was sur
prised to find the region of comparative
barbarism extend from fifty to sixty
miles below the tennessee line nearly
a hundred miles into kentucky, or to
within fifty miles of lexington. fen
tress was of course worse than the
rest, civilization receding as he ap
proached the mountains and regaining
its influence as he left them behind; j
but the picture here sketched has many;
lineaments common to great portions of j
kentucky and tennessee.
hard-handed toilers from the old
states! fugitives from the grinding op- j
pressions of europe! let me implore,
you to buy no land on the mere dis
cription of the seller, none without
seeing or having it examined by a
trusty friend, and none anywhere
merely because it is cheap. there is
an abundance of land which would be
very dear at sixpence an acre—very
much from which you could not ex-'
tract a comfortable livelihood though
you had a thousand acres given you.
my friend estimates that the greater
portion of fentress county might be
bought at five cents per acre, and be
a dear bargain at that. he is now on
bis way home to advise the gentleman'
whose agent he is never to pay the
100 taxes due on his 25,00 acres,
but let it go to the state and the wild
beasts who are its proper inhabitants.
if. o.
f
annexation or ccba. —a mr t.j
reynolds, late secretary of legation
to the court of madrid, has been pub- 1
fishing some developments in refer
ence to the plots of this government for
tba annexation of cuba. it appears,
that mr. saunders, our minister to the
spanish government, had been instruc
ted by president polk to sound the
spanish minister upon the subject, j
and prepare the way for a negociatiou.
mr. saunders conceived the idea of
guaranteeing the spanish debt to eng-1
land, taking a mortgage on cuba for
security, rather than that england
should get possession of the island. as
that debt is three hundred and fifty
millions of dollars, our secretary
thought this was going it rather too
strong, but thought it was pfssible that
the minister was only acting by orders
from the highest source. still mr. r. j
felt bound to use all his abilities in pre
venting the great consummation contem
plated by messrs. polk sc co. as a
democrat, he coßpeivad that such a
thing should not he done without being
submitted to the people; but bis great
reason was, that if cuba was annexed,
men of a hue or so too dark might get
into high political station. he says:
*1 felt bound, as a southern man, and
indeed as an .american, to look to the
terms of any proposed annexation of
cuba; for in that event, by the decision
of the united states supreme court in
the case of the anustad, about one
half of the slaves of cuba would be
freed; and as the laws ot that island
make no distinction between the free
whites and the free blacks, the south
and the union might find in their bo
som a free negro commonwealth, clai
ming the right to send freed slaves as
senators to our congress unless proper
provisions were made in or previous to
the conclusion of the treaty, to secure
the present de facto position of the white
population of cuba.’
f frum th#* n. o. lvlta, ot mac 10
state of affairs in
california.
the following letter from an intelli
gent merchant of this city, who went
from panama to •california m the
i california, gives the most clear, con
nected and graphic description we have
yet read, of the cqoiuiion of affairs in
j the new el dorado ’the
j the writer enables us to vouch for the
i perfect accuracy of his statements.—
.v. f. evangelist.
san francisco, march, 3, 1840.
a most singular state of things pre
vails here. it i 9, i believe, without
precedent in the history of the world.
the cold weather and snow have driven
all the miners from the mines into this
place and monterey. they are devis
ing ail sorts of inodes of spending their
gold and killing time, of which gamb
ling appears to be the most in vogue.
in fact, there is nothing geing on here
but gambling and drinking. every
thing is selling very high at retail;
wholesale prices are more moderate.
there are in this harbor about forty
merchant vessels, ships, brigs, schrs.
many with cargoes aboard, there being
but few places on shore for storage.
the greater portion of these vessels
are from the south american pacific
coast, and are freighted with flour and
assorted dry goods and groceries; some
are from the**saitdwicn islands, with
sugar, fruit, &c. the variety of flags
among the shipping strikes one with
surprise—there are american, eng
lish, hungarian, spanish, french,
german, ecuador, peruvian, chilian,
russian and mexifan vessfta, all hud
dled together.* nearly all the vessels
in post aq| without men*, their su>.
bint and stowed away in the hold, with
.perhaps the captain and mate aboard
*as sbip-keepers. tire conditon of .the
ships here is like thut-of the ugty sin
ners described by virgil, who crossed
{he river styx, and were condemned to
wander forever on its hanks, looking
in vain for the means of recrossing it.
it is probable that we shall have "all
the company’s steamers here in a
hunch, like a box of bad herrings. it
would be no easy matter to frame an
advertisement, as to the probable date
of the california’s departure. sail
ors have offered to ship for oregon, or
on short trips to southern ports, for
$loo per month. jack appears to|
delight in the atmosphere of california,
and generally refuses to go beyond its,
influence. all we beard in the states!
about the gold mines is fully confirmed
here. there is gold in abundance.
all who go to the mines do well—somej
return with fortunes; new discoveries!
are made every day. the millennium,
so far as plenty of gold is concerned,
cannot be far off. that this mining*
region, so extensive and so rich, andj
traveled over by indians for hundreds'
of years, should so long have remained t
a secret, is certainly astonishing. i,
have seen a single lump ot gold found;
near the the “middle fork," valued at
$2460. i might regale you with other
gold 9tories, but i fear you would think
me somewhat flighty, from the effects
of the quinine which i took on the.
isthmus to cure me of the panama fev-!
er, which, by the by, did not leave me
until i made the latitude of upper]
california.
flour has been sold at the mines at*
$4 per lb. $boo per i*l*l shoes $5o)
per pair; pants $4o; whiskey or brandy
$2 a drink, .and not allowed to help*
yourself. prices are now a little re
duced, though yet very high, hut will
fait considerably on arrival ot the stocks
from the states; yet, i believe all!
will do a fair business. transporta
tion hence to settlers on the sacramen
to is terribly high; $l2 per bbl. for
flour, $4b for pork, and other things
m proportion. a paltry launch of a
few tons earns $l2oo or $l5oo in a
few days. oh! for a steamboat, a flat
boat, or anything with a steam-engine
in it! i saw $booo refused for an old!
leaky launch of about six tons, which
might sell in the states for ?»100 or
$l5o. there are plenty of foreign
schooners here, but commodore jones
will not allow them to run up the
sacramento, hence the high rates of,
transportation.
a small iron steamer, to run coast
wise between here and oregon, on the
north, and >aa diego, san angelos,!
monterey, lac., on the south, would do
i a splendid business. as the existence
'of coal in this region is doubtful, a
steamer should be so built that wood
might be used to make steam.
i aui greatly disappointed m the
much vaunted climate of san francis
co. since my arrival, the weather has
been very disagreeable, chilly and
cold; and the worst of h is, that it re
mains so during the entire summer. i
jam writing in my slate-room on board
the california, ray cloak wrapped
around me, and rav hands and feet as
com as charity, snow mar be seen
john dick, pc stunt*
whole no. 76.
upou the distant mount mb* and hills, in
almost every direetioo. in the* town
winter clothing is required the wboh
year round. paring the summer the
mornings are warm and pleasant until
ten o'clock, when the usual winds from
the north set in, changing the weather
to a piercing cold. confound such a
climate* lam told, however, that a
short distance from the coast the climate
is more genial several new towns,
bemad, stockton, etc. situated at the
head of the bay, are coming into
notice.
lam of the opinion that this place
is not favorably situated for a large
commercial city. besides the uaplee
santness of the cold winds, there n no
wood in the vicinity, and all provisions
from the country are brought a ijo|
distance and at a heavy expense
these disadvantages are not encoun
tered by the towns located at the hoad
of the bay. notwithstanding these
disadvantages, lots here continue to
advance. property, which a short
time ago sold for hundreds, now brings
thousands.
government pays ten thousand dol
lars a year rent for a good-for-nothing
little warehouse, which would not rent
in new-orleans for five hundred dol
lars. the most miserable shed of a
dwelling-house rents for fifteen to
twenty-five hundred dollars a year.
the town is surrounded by high naked
hills, and the flat or inclination at the
base is so narrow, that there is not
room to build a city of any magnitude,
unless by cutting away the hills.
commodore jones is here with the
ohio (74,) sloops* st. mary, warren,
dale, preble, and the store-ships re
lief and southampton. the rainy
season is not yet over. it will proba
bly continue until the first of next
month. in the meantime the miners
are getting ready for another cam
paign.
it is said that the roads are so bad
that the communications are closed be
tween sutter’s fort and the mines. 1
shall start for the “gold regions” the
last of this month.
i neard that an official survey of the
gold regions is to be made during the
summer. things cannot remaio long
as they now are. the mines must be
sold, leased, or worked by the govern
ment; which latter 1 do not think ceuld
re done. immense fortunes will no
doubt be realiq|d from the mines.
gold is worth here from fifteen tq six
teen dollar?*, the ounce—there is plenty
of silver, and qp demand for it.
h. e. r.
a
-norwegian water telescopes.-
an instrument which thejieople of nor
way have found of so great utilifynhat
there is scarcely a single fishing-boat
without one, is the water telescope or
tube, of three or four feet in length,
which they carry in their boats with
them when they go out a fishing, when
they reach the fishing ground, they im
merse one end of this telescope in the
water, and look through the glass,
which shows objects some ten or fifteen
fathoms deep as distinctly as if they
were a few feet from the surface; by
which means, when a shoal offish come
into their bays, the norwegians instant
ly prepare their nets, man their boats,
and go out in pursuit. the first pro
cess is minutely to survey the ground
with their glasses, and where they find
the fish swarming about in great num
bers, they give the signal, and sur
round the fish with large draught nets,
and often catch hundreds at a haul
without these telescopes, their* busi
ness would otten prove precarious and
unprofitable, as the fish by these
glasses are as distinctly seen in the
jeep clear sea of norway as gold-fish
m a crystal jar. this instrument is
not ouly used by the fisherman, but it
is also found aboard the navy and coast
ing vessels of norway. when their
anchors get into foul ground, or the ca
bles warped on roadstead, they imme
diately apply the glass, and guided by
it, take steps to put all to rights, which
they could not do so well without the
aid of the rude and simple instrument,
which the meanest fisherman can make
up with his own hands, without the aid
of a craftsman.—this instrument has
been lately adopted by the scotch fish
ermen on the tay, and by its assistance
they have been enabled to discover
stones, and uneven ground, over which
their nets travel, and hvae found the
telescope answers to admiration, tho
most minute object in twelve feat of
water being as clearly seen as on the
surface.—we see no reason why it
could not be used with advantage in the
rivers and bays of the united staten.
smollett a sd saw-somes.— the ap
prentice of a surgeon having, in n frol
ic with smollett, deserted bis post at
the mortar one night, and left the sur
gery for a few minutes, was, on his re
turn, sharply reprimanded by the son of
galen for his conduct. young saw
hones, in extenuation of hia crime,
pleaded that he had been hit by a snow
ball, and bad gone out in pursuit of
the 1 person who threw it. the sur
geon, who doubted the truth of the sto
ry, placing himself at the shop-door,
said “how long might 1 stop here and
such a thing not happen to me i smol
lett, who stood behind the pillar of the
door, and heard what had passed,
snatched op a snow-hall, and quickly
delivered his playmate from the dilemma
in which this question had placed him,
by planting a snow-ball eg the sur
geon prodoecis, and tbua answered
the question be pet. 4i|
n ijisj?fpff'jt
the depth of the ocean—the
greatest depth ever reached by sounding was in the atlantic 600 miles west
of st. helena, where sir james rose
found no bottom with a fathom line of
six miles and a quarter in length.
the mississippi central meeting h« taken
atepa tbit look to prompt, definite, and da
tive action. the central assemblage be*
climinaty to other and more stringent lega
te action, m the issue of the proceedings
proved.
judge sharkey, as chairman of the select
committee, to whom the matter was referred,
presented an able report, in substance similar
to the view* act forth in the southern ad
dress, and the reaponaea to it throughout the
south.
the repotl concludca with the following
specific recommendation*, replete with wis
dom. and well suited to the emergency
yowr committee hare thus endeavored to
point out and maintain oar rights, and to show
the extent of the injury threatened, but do
not feel authorized, representing as they do
but a smalt portion of the state, to presnhe
the course which should be pursued by the
people of the whole state. it is a question of
state sovereignty, on which the people o(
the whole state should speak, and let then
voice be heard also through the legislature,
the orgaited representative of stale sovereign
ly we therefore reccommend the adopt or
of the following resolutions
“resolved, that it is most important ui
obtain a general expression of the will, under
standing, and voice of our fellow-citizens oi
mississippi upon the issue presented in rela
tion to the territories ofthe tinned states and
the question of domestic slavery.
resolved, that to that end we respectfully
but solemnly recommend to them to hold im
mediately, in each of all the counties, a pri
mary meeting of the citizens, respectively, foi
the choice of delegates to meet m convention
at the capitil on the first monday in octobei
next, in order to express in a more explicit
and concentrated form the will, understanding,
•bd voice of the whole people of this state.
“resolved, that as the controversy in
volved is one on which it is impossible thal
any party differences in this state can exist,
and in order to prevent any undue assumption
or suspicion on this score, we urge it as pro
per and necessary, that there should be an
equal number of each of the great political
psities in the delegates so to be chosen, and
to effect that object the delegation t ught to be
double that of the represe tation of the state
in the house of representatives.”
the report of judge sharkey is an able and
an eloquent one, but for the present we must
content ourselves by giving bis views on that
feature of this great question, which is the
most practically important to ourselves.
“but the people of the northern states do
not stop at asserting a right to abolish slavery
in the territories. they seem to hold in ut
ter disregard that provision in the constitution
which authorizes the owner to recapture hie
fugitive slaves wherever they may be found.
this is a provision which can admit of no dis
pute, and its violation can admit ol no excuse.
this is not fidelity to th sir government which
is one of the duties of christianity, in the
name of which they profess to act. how un
like the example set them by tiie apostle
paul, in sending home to plilemon his runa
way slave, imploring for him forgiveness.
w« lament their misguided zeal, their false
philanthropy, and in the name of our common
country we implore them to beware, lest they
drive us to extremeiies which will be fatal in
their results. it is not for them to determine
whether slavery is a blessing or a curse to us.
that question we reserve to ourselves and
whilst they may profess not to interfere with
it here, yet we cannot be mistaken as to the
ultimate end which they desire to accomplish.
the delegation from this state in the last
congress, with entile unanimity, have given
the history of the progressive encroachments
on our rights, and have pointed out the evils to
be apprehended. as faithful sentinels, thev
have warned us of approaching danger, and
are. entitled to fiur approbation. as citizens
of a southern state, it becomes us to vindi,
cate the sovereignty of that state, and it ii
proper that the whole south should act witl
unanimity. the legislature of virginia, ii
march, 1847, passed resolutions condemning
the wilmot proviso, and asserting the right:
of the states; and again in january 1849, bj
an overwheimnmg vote, reaffirmed the resolu
lions of 1847, and passed others protesting
against any action of congress on the slave
trade and slavery in the district oi' columbia,
those resolutions clearly and forcibly sci
forth the constitutional rights of the south
and we would give them our most unqualifiec
concurrence. we cannot but regard any leg
islation by congress, either past or to come
which in any degree, either directly or re
motely, may seem to give sanction to the
authority of that body over the subject, at
void for want of power, and in its tendency
destructive of the principles of the union
which should be held inviolable in every fea
ture. but whilst we thu3 broadly assert oui
constitutional right, it will be wiih our pet*
pie to say whether they will meet our breth
ren of the north in good faith, should it bt
tendered, in carrying out the missouri com
promise—not as a matter of intrinsic obliga
tion, but by common consent of ihe people
most positively its legal validity at
an act of legislation. a constitutional princi
ple admits of no compromise by congress,
to compromise was to assert and exercise
the right to do so, and the consequent right
to legislate on the subject, which wc utterly
deny.”
let our brethren of mississippi then lean
no more on the broken reed of “compromise”
either past or prospective, but as one man
rise up and declare their readiness to unite
with us and all their other southern allies in
sternly demanding the full and just rights
guarantied to us all by the constitution—
claiming no more, and accepting no less.
the prospect of emancipation in ken
tucky.—the prospect of the ultimate suc
cese of the present emancipation rnovemenu
n kentucky, never was so flattering as at the
present tjme.—our cause has gained ground
rapidly within the last few months, and with
every accession of new strength, the rapidity
of its onward puogrcss seems to be increased.
a few months ago tke firmament above oui
heads, to the eye of resson, seemed dark in
deed, and “shadows, clouds, and darkness”
rested upon the prospect before us. a changt
a glorious change has come over that pros
pect, and the sky is much less cloudy and
portentous. we cannot express the fervem
and profound delight which we feel in being
able to declare that the sentiment in favor «»i
freedom has advanced and isadvancing rapid
ly towards final consummation.
we do not wish to be understood as saying
that we expect the stale convention which it
to assemble in october next, will strike f-la
very out of existence. \v hat that convention
may see fit to do, lies beyond the reach of oui
foresight. but we assert w ith confidence that
the anti-slavery sentiment in kentucky, has
greatly expanded within the shun period ol
the present year; and we have a right to au
gur, from what has recently taken place in
the feelings and opinions of the people, that
the future holds in store for the friends of lib
erty, much that will thrill their hearts w ith joy
unspeakable.
before the assembling ofthe late frankfort
convention, the emancipationists were de
nounced by the pro-slavery men as being feu
in somber, and infirm in purpose. they were
spoken of by others as am able visionaries,
and aa men who were astray in the pursuit oi
a mere phantom. but ih« members of tht
emancipation convention represented
much of the miod, morals, religion, and
general respectability of the commonwealth
that the advocates of slavery have been forced
to change their tone, and to speak ol etna net
pauonvua* a a formidable body of men ol
strong heads and hearts, who are not to be
treated as weak or mad, but to be met with
all the pathos of property, aod all the elo
quence of conservatism. this change in ihe
tone of the pro-slavery men »s highly signifi
cant. heooefurth it is not to be considered a
«go of a shallow bead, or a fanatics] spirit if
a kentuckian apeak the truth odenlv and
frwlr hi relation lo tne diasung influence of
negro slavery. the instituties me; be ■util
ed with ell the weapon* of wisdom, wit, logic
end experience, and titer who battle against it
are not ncsesaarily to be regarded as fanatics
and fools.— bmnmrilh kxanuner.
cent.—the slave trade is again eery
active in cuba, several thousand slaves har
ing been landed within the last two months,
and ntber thousands being shortly expected.
the captain general’s fee is generally under-
stood to he three doubloons a head, or 51.1
the native cubans dislike the trade which
yearly increases the number of barbarian af
ricans in the island, usually imported frootj
warlike tribes. tbe spanish policy faroia the
introduction of this class, for the very reason
of its tendency to keep down any disposition
on the cubans to rise for their own mdepen-
i donee. but for this cause cuba w ould doubt
less have been independent long ago.
considerable excitement has been caused
among tbe foreigners resident in cubs, by re
cent regulations of the captain general, to tbe
effect that after a residence of five years, all
foreigners must either quit tbe island, or else
tors wear allegiance to their own country, and
become naiuialized spanish subjects. we
have probably several thousand american cit
i ixena scattered throughout cuba, and intelli
gent authonties estimate as high as forty mil
linns of dollars the amount of american cap
ital invested there. it remains to be seen
what course our government will pursue, if
so high-handed a measure is actually attempt
ed to b« carried into effect.
it is, no doubt, against the americans it is
aimed, though the first application of it has
been in a case of a frenchman. some angry
conespondence has passed between the
french consulate, at havana, and the cap
tain general, and the consul has gone home
to lay the subject before his government.
charleston mercury 20th.
speech of wendell phillips
at the adrmmrd mating of the american anri-sumy
society.
mr. chairman. —at this late hour i have
no disposition to address this audience on the
subject which we meet here to discuss, but
before the meeting is concluded, i would call
the attention of the audience to the statements
which we have just heard from the friend
who has left the platform, and ask you how
they can be reconciled with the laws of the
southern states* i remember in cambridge,
a few years ago, i had a frieud a slaveholder
from south carolina, one of the states to
which our friend has referred. he had, as a
rarity, one slave who could read and write,
one of those individual exceptions, as i sup
pose, to which frederick douglass refers. 1
remember that he told me that his brother
slaveholders remonstrated with him against
permitting that man to educate himself and to
learn to write. i hold in my hand some of
the laws of very many of the slave states,
and i want to read to you one or to pa^sages.
in mississippi the penalty for teaching a
slave to read is one year’s imprisonment.
in virginia, any white person asssembling
slaves for the purpose of teaching them to
read shall be fined not less than or more than
one hundred dollars.
any person leaching free colored persons
to read shall be fined not more than fifty dol
lars, and imprisoned not more tfian two
months.
religious meetings, i see, arc forbidden in
south carolina, georgia, and some other
slave states, and may be dispersed hv any
justice of the peace.
yesterday while mr. bibb w t as making his
statements he acknowledged that there were
laws against the slave being taught to read in
all the slate states but seven.—now does
any person imagine for a moment that the
masters of three millions of slaves would per
mit any body not under their immediate over
seership and inspection to pieach to these
sl ives and to instruct them to read and write 1
we know that clergymen in boston have not
been allowed to preach anti-slavery dis
courses to white con-< south
ern states. they have ouiiged to flee
and take refuge on board of ships. the faci
is if you will first visit the family ol’ the slave
holder and be esteemed a safe person, doubt
less you may go and do what you pleas p r u i
the question we have been discussjpor
whether a northern sentiment, unclosed by
southern ownership, is peimitted to link itseii
mentally and communicate with the oppiessed
race of the south. do you believe it possi
ble* why it is nonsense. what was the ob
ject of the south in rifling the united states
mail and not permitting their white people to
pet use documents on the subject of slavery*
calhoun, you know, introduced into the sen
ate of the united states, a law lo subjec the
united states mail to inspection before it was
distributed to the white men of the south, in
order to guard the southern states against
the freedom of discussion. and here are men
who ask us to prove that there is any legal
impediment against our going to the south
and preaching to the slaves. no law! why
they do not want any law there; legislation is
almost superfluous. suppose i request
henry clay to assemble his sixty slaves and
allow me to instruct them. do you suppose
he would recognize rny right to teach his cat
tle’—to teach his property gathered on his
i plantation, whether man or brute* he would
i say, 1 want no law to determine who shall
s|**ak to my slave and who not. not long a
go in northampton a friend requested the
privilege of speaking to a slave in the pres
ence of his master, and was refused; and yet
we aie to take the bible and go among the
plantations of the south to distribute it. it
:s idle—it cannot be done. the rational
method of course is to keep away. what
has been the fate of those persons who have
attempted it* torty lies in his grave; cran
dall went to his; lovejoy was murdered
fairbanks is in kentucky prison. and here
is a society that proposes lo organize itself in
new york foi the purpose of commissioning
martyis, i suppose. you need not obtain
any great number of bibles. take one and
ry it.
the gentleman says he has heard the
church attacked. when he has studied the
•subject as deeply as we have he will be likely
10 see good reasons lor it. the mayflower
was a good ship, and there were good men in
it, and they planted noble institutions in this
country. we are not persons who question
ills but the question with us is simply, what
is the american church doing lor the ameri
can slave* slavery is no trivial evil, every
-ixth man is a slave! what should we think
>f decimating the country, taking one tenth
ind subjecting them to slavery* the slave
nusband has no wife, the father no children,
he child no patent; chastity is a dream; in
struction is a shadow; the man is imbiuted.
to every sixth man the wilt of the white is
taw, and the anglo-saxon, priding himsell
upon hia superiutity, takea advantage of it to
oppress the feeble race for hia own benefit.
and what is the church doing* has she
uttered her protest* where is it* luet us
lest her.
in olden time* when a man was in danger
if the community be fled to the turns of the
altar that w as as long ago aa the jews,
(n the middle ages of the church wherever
here was an oppressed and persecuted man
r criminal, he was permitted to take refuge
icncatb the raouaatery. where does the
i iugttive slave go now* does he knock at
he door of your cathedrals does he uke
reluge in your chuiches that count their mil
j lions of accumulated property in new york*
do you find their doors wide open that his
j may be pleaded there* has it credit with
u»e dignitaries of the church* no. she
f nukes the men who plead his cause aa
a conclave of infidels, and she will have noth
mg to do with them.
our friend ssys the church is mighty and
i it is. it moulds the national character; it
stands at the nation's bead and directs the
streams of knowledge at which the children
and grown op men drink; it given me the fuel
to the national mind politics fill up iu lungs
ftoiirtlip breath of the religious »enurocot,
ud lire* aiwi dies in tbr which it
oaates. if ilia thus mighty a**h powerfni
m 4 can do the work, why does it not do ti!
sending the bible stealthily into kentucky la
gire to a poor shire is not the appropriate
work of the church i«t os hear a loud pro
test from ihe powerful sects of the north, the
baptist, the methodist, the congregationalwt,
and the freahjrtettan churches, against those
who sit down to the same communion tables
with them, and still make laws forbidding
bibles to be distributed among their slares at
the n*k of martyrdom. when the church
begins to do the work it is done. it is we
little men that row* against the atregm, that
are obliged to protest and letnoustrate to
make nurseries heard. the church holds
the key to the national heart, and it cannot
beat without its permission. take the testi
mony of one of her own distmguisihed rnen.
what aays rer. mr. barnes' “there is no
power that could snataiu slavery an boqr if it
were not sustained in the church. not a
blow need be struck, not an unkiod word need
be uttered, no man's motives need be impug
ned, no man's property or rights invaded all
that i- needful is for tier to stand np in the
sacred majesty of solemn testimony, and utter
her calm and deliberate voice to the world and
the work is done.” l>o we say too much then
when we declare that the church like the
dog in the manger stands up between ua and
the people you have monopolised the peo
ple's heart which rises and follows at your
biding. do you work then. god has given
you this nation: it lies a helpless infant in your
hands. rear it, and if it grows up to be a
brutal tyrant we hold you accountable for the
evil which you might have perverted. are
we unjust' is it not true? this is our in
dictment against the church. the nation is
hers: we do not make it; this legislation is
hers; we do not legislate. all this public
sentiment is hers; dots it not support slavery?
if it does not,? who does we have lived two
hundred years on this soil, we have beensiaty
years and more an independent people. we
have proclaimed that all rnen are equal. we
profess to believe that god created of one
blood all the nations of the earth; we are send
i mg this truth broadcast into the nations of the
.earth, translating it into all dialects; in the
1 mean time one sixth part of our people have
neither the bible, nor their rights, nor the
knowledge of the immortality that awaits them
beyond the grave. whose tault is it' slave
!ry has trebled and quadrupled since we were
a republic, and what has done it' somebody
has done it. who supports slavery' not
i the two hundred and fifty thousand men alone
i who own the slaves. it the twenty millions
beside had said it should not exist, it could
not, and who’ because the american
church cannot give the prophetic rebuke,
“thou art the man."
ii
when rev. mr. kirk, of boston, went to
j join the evangelical alliance, and the fidelity
of british christianity uttered the word slave
in the ears of the american delegates, he re
plied, “cannot we go anywhere but we must
have this thrown inoui teeth the church
cannot bear it even in her own land, and
when she crosses the water and is called to
account, she is dumb. she cannot point to a
single step she has ever taken to free the
i slave, not to one hearty, efficient utterance of
her voice in his behalf here and there, to
be sure, a church writes out her beautiful
resolutions, and for ought 1 know, engrosses
them on parchment and lays them up in its
i archives, but that is not the way she goes to
i work when she intends to do something.
when she resolves to christianize the sand
wich islands she calls on her young men to
sacrifice iheir lives to be missionaries. she
takes up the four corners of the nation and
shakes it; she takes up all the religious litera
ture of the country and monopolizes it in fa
'vi rof any scheme that she pronounces right
and just. herein she shows that she 19
courageous, and means what she aays. but
when she comes to the slave, she comes with
wards on heimips and nothing in jihr hand j
she has no sword of the spirit, she does noth
ing. now have we not a right to complain
of the church' we ask only to measure her
by her own yard stick. we do not wrant
woids but deeds. let her anticipate us; we
are nothing in comparison with her. let
her come in w ith the majesty of her strength,
and fill up this platform and crowd us off.
does she do it? no; around us cluster the
fugitive slaves; they come to us in boxes:
men in the disguise of.women flee along the
1 highways of republican christian america,
and take lefuge among us “infidels." the;,
dare not trust themselves to the religion of
the country. my test of religion is this: that
1 is a sanctuary where the hunted and hopeless
poor find refuge, and wherever they dare not
trust themselves, there is but an outward
j covering, full of dead men’s bones. where
the feeble look tor succor there is humanity.
you may know who love children, for children
discover it in their faces. so it is with the
oppressed; wherever they find warm-hearted
support and protection there they lake refuge.
to what better use could your churches be
put than to shelter the poor what better use
could your pulpits be put than to plead the
.cause of the bondman? what is that religion
which lets the mere humanity of men go be
fore it? the church is permitting the men
w hom she calls infidels to do the work of the
nineteenth century, to herald the the way of
truth in the feeblest efforts of humanity of
which the age cau boast, taking up a despised
race, and dragging them into the sunlight of
civilization and religion. we are to doit—
wc, despised, uninfluential, unbelieving, un
baptized, excommunicated men and women.
the church lives in the battered hulk that is
stranded on the banks, while the stream of
human progress is sweeping by. that is not
the church o: christ; it is the shell—the skin
she has thrown off.
you will always find the men who have
been painfully awakened to a sense of ihe
necessity of the age to which they belong,
are slandeied because they are misunderstood
at ihe time, but if the world is kind enough to
remember them afterward, it will acknowledge
them as martrys, though when they lived
they were considered as outlaws and disturb
ers. this is no new thing. the first and
highest idea of every age has always protest
ed against the church of that age. luther
protested against the church of his day and
wla excouinmunicated, but the subsequent
age sustained turn. when lutheranism had
run its course and became lifeless the puriian
ism of our lathers bore its protest against the
church and was calumniated and driven out ot
europe to seek an asylum in this land, when
it (bunded the institutions under which we
now live. and w hen our fathers had wander
ed into error and become stiff and rigid, they
excommunicated the discredited young men 01
76 as meddlesome disturbers and fanatics.
w hen the temperance cause was first started
it was opposed and etnouened by the church,
but gradually the church accepted the prof
fered reform. 1 might pursue the subject to
any extent. our object is to show you that
we have no personal pique or antipathy to
gratify in attacking the institutions of the
country. —we are here lor the slave. you
remember the french fable of the lion that
complained that his race were not permitted to
write histories. the slave is not permitted to
write bis history, and those that would plan
for him the selfish scheme of colooixauon, the
mcduffies and calhouns stand up for the in
terests of the w hite race and argue that it
would not be safe for the victims to go free.
bui who will stand up lot the slave to ask tot
his own rights and to tell the story of the
wrongs sod injuries which have accumulated
forages' why, are you orthodox ta new
york' do you believe that the human heart
is angelic'—that men can be trusted wuh
power and not abase it' would you send
your own children 10 your enemies and trust
them to their metry» o no, you are to wise.
will you give them to the first moo you meet
and be assured of their good treatment' yet
how would that differ from the caasa of the
children of the southern slaves who are lorn
fipn ibeu paredu and subjected to the cruel
skews of tbetr owners '—only feel fin the
blare a* tor your own kuidrcd and tber« wno
difficahj, the quest*#* settle* natdf.
f>w fneod staled that be knew that oo ev*ry
plantation «t the «*tb. *h«e be bad vtailed,
one or more of the slaves could road. hare
nt ooqgins. grown vp to a mat* estate,
who had roue up and down day and night a
mid his comrades, and he knew bow many
oould read and write. he himself learned by
copying tbe seribblrog of lb® while boy* on
the board fences. now the white roan who
had paaaed along the highway* of the sooth,
and gone from tbe table of the slaveholder to,
ruch quarters a* he may choose to let him,
el up and would place his farts, bis travel
’s acquaintance, against tbe knowledge
which ha* been gained by a slave-born man
through years of suffering. this is testi
mony, it u fact, and you ought not to place*
anything beside it. for there is nothing of equal
character to place.
the north star.
rochester, june 8, 184j*
the presbyterian assembly.
the general assembly of the presbyterian
church (new school) met in philadelphia
last week. the subject of slavery of course
came up lor discussion. nothing but its abo
lition can ever set that subject at rest in any
religious body, professing to be under the
guidance of christian precept. no amount
of priestcraft can shut it out. it breaks
through all the cant about “brotherly love,”
the fear of disturbing and “creating divisions”
in the church and will and must be heard.
the discussion and the action of the assem
bly on this subject are full of interest. the
advanced stale of public opinion on the slave
ry question seemed to warrant the expectation,
that the church only wanted an opportunity
te declare itself the determined and uncom
promising foe of slaveholding, i confess that
my hopes were somewhat aroused. though
by no means sanguine that this ecclesiastical
body ever can or will do anything by w hich
what it conceives to be its interests will l»e
endangered, there did seem to be ieason to
expect, that the progressive state of public
opinion on this subject, would give its leaders
courage to take a decided stand, and to de
clare firmly and finally against slavery and
slaveholding. how stands the case 1
the presbyterian assembly does not even
come up with public opinion. it lags away
behind in the old stagnant quagmires of
hunkeiism. it adopts the old let alone poli
cy of affirming slavery to be a sin, and re
i fusing to affirm that the slaveholder is a
sinnner. how or by what show of reason
these reverend jesuits can make this cleat
even to their own undeistanding, i do not
pretend to decide. probably those only who
have been well schooled in the science of
religious cant and sophistry, can appreciate
their reasoning. to more simple and un
learned minds, the position of the church,
and the influence that it exerts on the public
mind, in reference to slavery appear to be not
less ridiculous than mischievous. the fol
lowing resolutions were adopted. they
show the animus of the assembly.
ist. resolved, that we re-affirm ihesenti
j ments expre-sed by the assembly of 1815,
i sod especially in the following quotation
“the general assembly have repeatedly
i declared theif candid approbation of those
i principles of civil liberty which seem to be
recognized by thp federal and state govern
ments in these united states. they have
expressed their regret that the slavery of the
africans and their descendants, still continues
in so many places, and even among those
within the pale of the church, and have
urged the presbyteries under their care, to
adopt such measures as will secure, at least
to the rising generation of slaves within the
bounds of the church, a religious education,
that they may be prepared for the exercise
and enjoyment of liberty, when god in his
ptrovidencc may open a door for their emanci
pation.”
2nd. resolved, that this general assem
bly leaffirm the opinions expressed by the
general assembly of 1818. the following
extracts are commended to special notice
“we consider the voluntary enslaving of
one part of the human race by another, as a
j gross violation of the most precious and
sacred rights of human nature, as utterly in
consistent with the jaws of god, which are,
to love o'ur neighbors as ourselves, and as
totally irreconcileable with the spirit and
principles of the gospel of christ, which en
joins, that all things whatsoever ye would
that men should do to you, do you even so
i to them. slavery creates a paradox in the
moral system. it exhibits rational, account
able and immortal beings, in such circum
stances as scarcely to leave them the power
of moral action, it exhibits them as depen
dent on the will of others, whether they shall
receive religious instiuction—whether they
shall know and worship the true god—wheth
er they shall enjoy the ordinances of the
gospel—whether they shall perform the
duties, and cherish the endearments of hus
bands and wives, parents and children, neigh
bors and friends—w hether they shall preserve
their chastity and purity, or regard the dic
tates of justice and humanity. such are some
of the coosequeuces of slavery—consequences
not imaginary, but which connect themselves
with its very existence.”
3rd. resolved, that we re-affirm the
“declaration of the general assembly on the
subject of slavery,” made in the year 1848.
i the following sentiments are particular y
commended to the serious and prayerful at
tention of our judicatories and churches:
“the system of slavery as it exists in
these united states, viewed either in the
laws of the several states which sanction it,
in i s actual operation and results in society,
is intrinsically an unrighteous and oppressive
system, and is opposed to the prescriptions of
the law of god, to the spirit and precepts ol
the gospel, and to the best interests of humani
ty.”
again “bnt while we believe that many
evils incident to the system, render it impor
tant and obligatory to bear testimony against
it; yet, we would not undertake to determine
1 the degree of moral turpitude on the part of
1 individuals involved in it. this will doubt
less be found to vary in the sight of god,
according to the degree of light and other
1 circumstances pertaining to each. in view of
all tlioee embarrassments and obstacles in the
way of emancipation, interposed by the suit
-1 utes of the slaveholding states, and by the
•octal influence affecting the views and con
duct of those involved in it, we cannot pro
nounce a judgement of general and proaus
-1 coous condemnation, implying that destitution
of christian principles and feeling which
should exclude from the table of the lord,
1 ail who in the legj relation of masters
and slaves, or justify us in withholding oui
ecclesiastical and christian fellowship fron
them. we rather sympathize with, and
would seek to succor them in their embarrass
ments, believing that separation and secession
1 among the ebutebes and their members, are
1 not the methods that god approves and sanc
tion* for the reformation of this church
the third resohiuoo above quoted is espe
cially worthy of notice. the slave-system
hi opposed to the precepts and spirit of the
gospel. yet we would not undertake to
determine the degree of moral turpitude oo
the part of individuals involved m tt is it
pnirtlll to cgacrifc **7 imuaeo of won
palpehfe *elf-stulu6emtioo 1 why showm tbo s
preshytenan assembly, er any other
aedly religions body, uoowe themselves oboutj
the degree of the morel torptuide” of stave-1
bolding 7 li a either authorised or it for-
bidden by the precept* of script arc. will j
they ny that it im sutbonxed» then do
thia boldly, and tb«e who think differently
will know how to meet them. will they my i
that it is forbidden f they do this; and in-1
stead of following op this aanertioo, as ration
al, christian, and conscientious men would do,
by a straight-forward declaration that the
slaveholder, by his violation of chriatian pre
cept, is not a christiaa, they fly off ta a
twaddling rigmarole about the degree of
moral turpitude." how melancholy how
ridiculous'
previous to the adoption of these resolu
tions, above quoted, mr. bassett, of illinois,
proposed an amendment, in these words:—-
resolved, that slavery is a great sin be
fore god and man, and should be treated by
the church in the same way as other gross
immoralities.
on mr. bassett’s attempting to advo
cate his amendment, (says the report,) a vfery
decided opposition discovered itself to any
general discussion on the subject. but a lit
tle consideration brought the assembly to a
sense of justice.”
this resolution was too otanr too transpa
rent —too popular in its construction —thera
was not enough of priestcraft about it —no
loopholes to creep out at in a case of emer
gency or difficulty,—so a very decided op
position’' to his advocating it manifested it
self. here is an extract from mr. bassett’s
speech
much has been said about brotherly love.
over and over again he had been appealed to
to act with hro’herly love, and in a brotherly
spirit. it came so thick and fast that be teal
iy was disposed to act against his convictions
of piopnety. now, he held himself bound
in fellowship to every brother in christ. but
it was first necessary to define this relation
ship of brother. 1 have seen, said he, one
man fleeing before auother for his very life—
both of whom were members of the church,
and in that respect claimed to be my brothers.
but i could not regard them both alike. all
the impulses of my nature went forth for the
oppressed, fleeing man. i took him to my
nouse, barred my doors, and sheltered him
against a mob, ai the expense of my life, be
cause i thought him an injured man. could
i call this merciless, blood-thirsty pursuer a
brother 7 if i did, would it be sincere could
i command my love to go forth to such a mis
creant 7 i shall have to be made over anew.
the fact is, the blacks of the south are in a
condition of war with the whiles, «ind the op
pressed and injured race has all my sympa
thies. i say frankly that i do not regard the
slaveholder, a bona fide slaveholder, as my
brother, according to my church views and
church obligations and 1 never can till he
abandons slaveholding. he could not be a
brother subordinate to the body to which i be
long.
he would ask, what was the will ol god
in regard to slavery 7 was man made for
slavery, or liberty 7 was; there any thing in
the human constitution in favor of slavery 7
what were the laws that were stamped on
1 lie constitution of man?
there is a law which slavery tramples
under foot, which discloses its unholy and un
christian character. the sacred relations of
the household arc pre-eminently established
by god, and tend beyond all social influences,
to purity and exalt the character.
“.yet you know that slavery is in direct
conflict with this most fundamental right. you
know that the marriage relation is an impos
sibility in slavery. you know that if i were
a slave at the south, as much as i love my
wife, and as dear as is the right by which i
claim my affinity to her, i could not assert
that claim against the vilest impulses of the
most depraved monster. woman cannot shield
herself against the most infamous assault.
her virtue is an impossibility. if god has
written auy law, in the human soul, it is this.
a man must be an infidel or a hypocrite, who
can believe that god s revealed law author
izes so flagrant a violation of god’s law writ
ten on the page of human nature.
mr. bassett thought the salvation of the j
assembly depends upon its action on this
question. the great world is looking at us,
and feels that it is high time that we should
be rid of the great sin and curse of slavery.
it is a disgrace to us that we dare say nothing
more decided and manly in condemnation of
a system which even the corrupt political par-
ties of the country are hastening to disown.
if this body had been true to its real position
and principles, it might have been the fore-
mo9t ecclesiastical body in the country. at;
the period of our rupture, we had the sympa
thies of the world on our side. we were
thrust out for our alleged tendency towards
reform, and our sympathy with the age. if
we had kept true to this character, we should
have been the most honored and most influen
tial body in the country. but we have lost
groi nd by our timidity, and our most dishon- j
orable hankering for conformity to the old t
scnool assembly.
chief justice hoax blower, in a few words, j
strongly appioved of mr. bassett’s amend- 1
ment. mr. h. remarked as follows:
he would oppose slavery as he would
murder, manslaughter, and theft, and any otb-
er crime. he would no sooner commune with 1
a slaveholder, who is intelligently sucb, than
with the greatest malefactor. what right
has one man to sustain such a relation to j
ano.her mao, as that of master? where does j
a man acquire the power to buy and sell the i
sinews and soul of his fellow-man, made in
g«id's image, and bom with precisely the same 1
rights as himself l it is an offence against'
the rights of man which the gospel presup
poses in all its ovettures of mercy and how
can we hold him who voluntarily and openly
practices it, guiltlem enough to extend the
hand of brotherly communion to him 7 him
greatest objection to mi. bassett’s amend-j
ment is that it does not go far enough. the
duty of the church of christ, surrounded by j
a flagrant and all-prevalent sin, is something
more than to characterize it as a sin. liar
apprehensions on this subject are apt to be
weak and confused by our lamiitariiy with its
enormity. we talk about organic sins—sins
enormous in tbeir own nature, and in the sight
of god, yet excusable on account of tbeir in
corporation into our laws and social usages.
it is one of the most unhappy phrases be ever
heard. as if the. multiplication of a sin by
tens of thousands lessened its criminality; as
if its adoption into human codes altered its
inherent character; as if human legislation
superseded the word sod sanction of the al
mighty measure it by the same
honest rule you would apply to other crimes,
and what do you make it f it is a sis, h there
be any such thing ss sin; and if a sin, one of
the must heinous, and the more heinous be
caoae so widely participated in, and ao gener
ally excused. it is high time for the church
to take a proper attitude on this aubjeet; and
from his heart be sympathised with and
thanked the brother who had been true enough
to his sense of duty and convict ions of eternal
justice, to bring forward s proposition, de
claring slavery to be s an, and worthy of the
•w treatment—be would add more severe
sod stem treatment that any other gram im
morality.”
it is not needfol to add anything to these
remark*. they spenk for the—ehw, they
are hear, christian, and exptieh. bet heir
•ere they received 7
dr. bncau said—“ it is s ioadamsnts]
law of the church that am is ffinetpunsbfo be
fore the pwpti tribunals; mj we have pro
nounced slavery to be an unnfhtcon* and op
pressive system—in other words, a sin and
mr. surra, from mmsawn, fettawed up his
argument by stating that he wao opposed to
any action on thi* «übject, and reading pas
sage* from st. paul's writings, in reference
ui the relation* of master *«d servant —be-
cause. a# he said. lie desired to he guided
solely by the lamp of revelation —winding
up with these words if paul had lived in
these times, and had undertaken to draw a
picture of the results which have flowed from
this abolition discussion, he oould not have
used language more apt and expressive than
this.’’
after which, mr. holmes, of mississippi,
moved as a substitute (not adopted)—“ that
the tyrannical exercise of power, whether by
rulers ovet subjects, parents over children
or masters over slaves, is loudly condemned,
and ought to be made a matter of discipline
but that the relation of master and slave was
not necessarily sinful.*'
the object of mr. bassett was to commit
the assembly to ao affirmation that no chris
tian could be a slaveholder. the object of
dr. beeches and the southern representatives
was to avoid this, aod to leave things where
they were; and they succeeded by an over-1
whelming majority.
the new york evangelist says, that “an
advance has been made,” and congratulate*
the church upou the highly creditable char
acter and doings of the late assembly.” how
much more creditable and christian would
they have been, had a straight-forward and
manly course, such as that proposed by mr.
bassett, been adopted!— j. d.
presbyterian assembly, old school.
this body held its meetings in pittsburg;
last week, ff the proceedings of the new
school assembly were such as have been de
tailed above, what had the slave to hope from
the old school assembly 7 from every;
christian man and woman he has a right to j
expect sympathy and aid. from this as
sembly, professedly christian—practically in-;
fidel, he receives professions of
interest in his cause, followed up by action i
giving the lie to all such professions. the
following, amongst other resolutions, were
adopted
resolved, that the principles of the pres
byterian church, on the subject of slavery,
are already set forth in repeated declarations,
so full and so explicit as to need no further
exposition.
resolved, that we rejoice to believe that
the action of former assemblies, so far from
aiding or allowing the iniquitous oppression
of man by his fellow-man, has been steadily
promoting amelioration in the condition of
slaves, by winning the confidence of masters in
our freedom from fanaticism, and by stimu
lating the slave and the master alike to labor
in the religious instruction of the blacks.
comment on these resolutions is quite un
necessary. men who can make it their boast
that they liave won the confidence of slave
holders seem scarcely to come within range
lof a moral argument. they could not pos
sibly have demonstrated more clearly their
ow n shame and the uttei inability of chris
tianity as explained by them, to overthrow the
inhuman slave-sytem, than by adopting .«uch
a resolution as this. three millions of hu- 1
man beings are groaning in> b jage and. ig-:
i norance, almost hopeless of release. they
have perhaps heard that christ came to
preach deliverance to the captives—the open
ing of the prison-doors to them that are:
bound,” and they stretch out their hands to
those who call themselves the followers df
clvist, assured of help and consolation, and
they find (oil, horrible disappointment!)
that these self-styled followers of christ are
making their boast of winning the confidence j
of their oppressors by admitting them to'
church fellowship, and embracing them as
brethren where is the thief, highwayman,
or murderer whose confidence might not be
won by precisely this course 7 and what
wonid be the effect of thus winning his con
fidence 7 would it not be to convince the
thief, highwayman, or murderer, that all
the professions of enmity to theft, robbery, or
murder, made by these so-called christians,
were mere words, and jneant nothing, con
troverted as they were by their louder
speaking practice and would not these evil
doers be encouraged to persevere irv their
course of wickedness, fellowshipped and
countenanced therein by the religious, the
pious aod the respectable alas for the
world, if such is the christianity by which it
is to be reformed! j. d.
the scalpel.—the may number of this
anti-quackery periodical has been our table
several weeks waiting for a notice. it is like
it? predecessor, vigorous and transparent.
this number has an article, which may be
considered the editor's “confession of faith/'
respecting curative agents, headed “to
what extent is medicine entitled to confi
deucev’ from which the following is ex
tracted
air, warmth, food, and water, afford all
the elements essential to the production and
renovation of the human body. sleep is j
equally necessary, in restoring its powers
when fatigued. this, however, is only need
ful to the brain and voluntary museles the
heart, lungs, arteries, and viscera, never sleep.
breathing, the circulation of the blood, the
secretion of all the fluids, absorption, etc., go
on while life lasts. their cessation, even for
a few moments, ts death.
“these, then, are emphatically the viul
stimuli.’ the distinguished physiologist. mul
ler, remarks, they are the only efficient
means of restoring the body after sickness.’
what a reflection for the consumers of quack
medicines and the prescriptions of our learned
brethren, the medical philosophers in general.
again—‘ there are many other stimuli
which excite reaction, and which are not es
sentially renovating, and, indeed, for the most
part, have no restorative action on the organs;
and which, instead of producing symptoms or
phenomena of reaction, have no vivifying in
fluence, bat, on the contrary, are injurious, in
proportion to the change effected by them is
the organic composition/ *an endless inju
ry has been done to medietoe, and many lives
have been lost, through the error of confound
ing all agents winch exdu* reaction in the
system with these that sis absolutely essen
tial to life, and which renovate, while they
stimulate, the organs the false notion haring
boon thereby induced, that because certain
stuntth feed, as it were, the flame of life,
stimulating agents, geoemfly, ate neeeaeary
to life.’ read that, ye wretched hucksters of
medicines, whethe. with a diploma in jeer
pocket, ot a atoatn-mth fo manufacture, and a
newspaper tad a scute of clergymen to ad
vaitiaa year eooteaspuhfo watea. whatman,
that can think as a mtfoeal betag, deaa net
foal that the gteat phymologiw apeak* the
trathv
the utiele on temperature and atnx*.
pheric electricity is continued in tht* number
and is interesting »nd instructive.
of the article on “hydropathy and honxn>.
pathv appreciated." »t mvy be simply
that they are not appreciated.” it
without being logical *atirical without hit
ting anything or any body: and reasons where
no argument is inquired the man of
straw’’ •icmohdicd ihom effectually bin
the real man i* left where he was, untouched
and uninjured
there arc other article* on subjects usoail>
treated of in medical journals, written in ar.
understandable style, and satisfactorily free
from medical technicalities and mystification
it is gratifying to learn that the periodical has
received a large amount of support, and ma\
be considered fiimly established.— i. i»
pimple* oh the face.—touch tl*, n w ,m
spirits of turpentine once in six hours and
they will soon take themselves away
the same remedy, if applied eailv. will re
move a sty from the eyelid, and in nine case-,
out of ten, prevent boils, if used in the first
stages.—er.
this paragraph is a sample of a large ciaat
of the same sort. this and others like it arc
the genuine offspring of quackery. it may
be true or false that spirits of turpentine will
remove pimples from the face—very likely ii
is true. but if it is a remedy what then'
there is a reason why the pimples come on
the face. they arc the sign of a diseased
constitutional condition of the system. the
spirits of turpentine do not icrnove the dis
eased condition, but temove only the sign
that such condition exist*, his on the igno
ranee of this and other similar facts, that em
piricism thrives and fattens.—j. u.
colored physicians.—we are inhumed
that .messrs. john v. l)e grasse of out
city, and thomas j. white of brooklyn, two
j of the colored medical students of boudoir,
j medical college, brunswick, me have re
i ceived the degree of m.d. at the dose ot
the last term. m*. de grasse was a studeni
of dr. s. r cbilds.. and mr. white a
student of dr. w. c. roberts, both of this
city. notwithstanding the doors of the
medical colleges of this i ‘ity were barred
against them, they have parsued a regular
medical course, and now have their diploma
in hand, intending to go to work in their re
spective cities. they are young men of in
telhgeqce and moral worth.—jv. y. tribune
latest from thk plains.—from a letter
written by a member of the telegraph (st
lioiiis) company to his friend in this city, and
i brought to ihe settlements by an officer of dra
1 goons who was on his way from fort chiles,
i we glean the following intelligence:
the inconveniences which had thus far at
tended the travelling weie ranch greater than
the emigrants had anticipated. after one ut
i two day’s journey in the pawnee county they
were continually stopped by creeks, difficult to
ford, where it liecame necessary to empty th«-
1 wagons. this occurred generally once, and
sometimes twice in a single day, and was begin
ning to exhaust the strength and patience ol
the men.
i on the 3d inst. the company were overtak
en by a small body of pawnees, almost worn
out by fatigue and hunger, who stated that
t they were closely pursued by a war party ol
sioux indians. in consequence of this intel
ligence, featful of having their animals stolen,
every precautionary measure was taken—the
night guards doubled, &c. the grass, asha.l
been foreseen before leaving the settlements,
wa9 too short and too new for the subsistence
of the animal*. the latter quality, it seem*
has a tendency to purge them, rendering them
unfit for hard service. were assistance not
near at hand, the inconvenience would be
felt, as the corn taken out as a precautionary
guard is almost entirely consumed. they
propose however, to push on to fort chilles
where they will stop long enough to recruit
the forces of the animals. nothing is said
regarding the general health of the company.
the tone of the writer in speaking of his owrn
and the health of several friends, would indi
cate that it is good.— st. louis reveille.
rebuilding of st. louis.—at a meeting
of the citizens of st. louis, the following
resolution was adopted
resolved, that a public meeting' be held
at the rotunda of the court house, on
wednesday evening, the 23d inst. at
o’clock, for the purpose of concerting measu
res to procure the governor of this state to
convene the legislature, in order to procure
the passage of a law lending the credit of the
state of missouri for such an amount as will
be sufficient to re-build the city, and enable
its citizens to recover from ‘its late awful ca
lamity.
may 30th.—the great cievasse at suave’s
still remains unchecked, and there is no
prospect of stopping it for two weeks t*>
come. the water continues to rise, and the
greatest consternation prevails. 'i he tele
graphic accounts state, that already half the
city is inundated. the inhabitants are flying
from their houses, and business matters are
being wound up, preparatory to leaving the
city. to add to all this the cholera ha>
again broken out in the vicinity of the ere
vasae.
the revenue of great britain —me
hive now before us the balance sheet of the
public income and expenditure for the yen
ending on the sth of the present month
the statement of revenue which it give* in
eludes that of ireland, which the quarterly
return, published on the *»lh inst did not.
thy addition amounts to no more than x 3,
350,302 155., as to which we may have sow
remarks to make on another occas.on. the
net income of the united kingdom for the
years 184 h—9, minus the cost of collodion
and some oilier deductions, is therefore x 53,
017,732 15s. the total exrs-ndnure has
been x'53,287,110 ms. id. there is con
aequently a deficit upon the year of x'209,-
217 19s. id. this amount, it is true, is not
large still the tact of a deficit is one which
ought never to para without animadversion
it must always be regarded citbor as a sign
of national declension, or as a blot upon finan
cial management.— london ('krontcl* april
24.
escape or a convict wiric in her hi*
band's attire. a mrs mcadams was,
few weeks sine**, convicted of the crunc ot
murder before the circuit court of madison
county, miss. her husband was allowed to
visa her ui prison frequently, and at la»‘
dressed her in a suit of his own clothes, by
means of which she effected a passage from
the prison. she was traced a* far as v ick»
burgh, where she took passage in a steam
boat, and, from the last accounts had not
been arrested.
the cholera. inhumanity. the
louis reveille states that the whole numfe'
of deaths on board the unfortunate steamer
monroe, which stopped at jefferson city w*
her way up from st. louis upon the 12th uh
was fifty-three, and adds
the conduct of parties at jefferson itv
represented as having been outrageous. the
sick were removed, in many case*, to holds,
and, dying, all their effects w ere seized to pny
for beds and furniture, which were burned,
in order to prevent contagion the expense*
attending a death, in one case amounted to
atariv 1200. in tusnv eat* the sick were
removed to sheds, and there left unattended,
taken when complying with the uk*i
erbtuot demands.
capt. moore of the monroe, who returned
to st. louis by land died in the city
after his arrival.
gentlemen —i am truly glad that an op
portunity present* itself by which we can
present something of importance to your
reader*. i allude to the laying of the comer
stone of the chapel and dedication of the
olive cemetery,” which auspicious event
look place yesterday—drawing together a
gieatet number ofsour people than usual, to
witness a scene for the first time enacied in
these united states.
the cemetery is situated about two rnilea
from the dty the friends were conveyed to
the ground by fourteen ommbuaea, with from
six to two horses each, as well a* by numer
ous other conveyances. the number of per
sons in attendance could not have been lees
than four hundred, ail of whom were much
delighted, for it is really a beautiful and ele
vated site, in every wav well adapted for bu
rial purposes.
the ceremonies were commenced by the
president of the company, joseph p. humph
ries. calling the audience to order, when an
appropriate and solemn prayer was offeied to
the throne of grace by the kev. ti. b. her
rington. after which the following introduc
tory remarks were made by the president
t'nrnds and (t/i-ciu—this is an
unusual sight. we are assembled together
this dav upon an extiaordinary occasion—sol
emn in its nature, encouraging in its asjieet,
and holy in its purposes. \n e are assembled
10 aid and witness a work which, lor its mag
nitude and utility, is certainly calculated to
do us imperishable honor—for, amongst all
civilized communities, an interest is always
manifested for the proper sepulture of the
dead.
great care and attention have been paid to
this subject by our white fellow-citizens, as
the numerous cemeteries iri these united
states amply testify and why it is that we
have not, as a people, made an effoit to es
tablish so useful an object at an earlier period
than the present, is not for us now to consid
er. it seems to have been left for oui day
and generation; and we rejoice thai we are
permitted this day to lay the corner stone,
and dedicate the first cemetery established by
the colored citizens of the united states of
america.
and it is gratifying in no small degree that
this honor belongs to the colored citizens of
the city and county ol philadelphia. although
oppressed by prejudice, although contemned
and disfranchised, we are nevertheless suscep
tible of those high and ennobling qualities
w hich our more favored brethren would mo
nopolize and, notwithstanding all the obsta
cles emanating from prejudices that are placed
in our pathway, we are yet determined to ad
vance, toevinee to the world that the spirit of
enterprise, the arts and sciences, and the skill
of mechanism, are as easily attained, andean
be as successfully carried out by us, as by any
oilier portion of the human family.
for w« ar** all children of one common father,
he our complexion* what they may.
w e are also assembled upon a solemn oc- j
casion. tins large space of ground is this
day to be set apart as a resting place for the
dead. here, where the gentle zephyrs of
heaven shall have their unobstructed sway;
where the majestic oak shall spread her
branches; and where the willow shall bend
her drooping boughs in mournful silence, shall
repose the bodies of affectionate parents, de
voted wives, tender husbands, fond children,
loving brothers and sisters, and sincere
friends —many of whom, after having been
bound together in life by the holiest ties ot af
fection, will not be separated, even after that
life has become extinct. and upon this
ground, when so consecrated, the survivors of
many a loved one will have the privilege—
though sad, yet pleasing—of visiting their
sepulchres, reflecting upon their virtues and,
have their minds directed to that eternity,
where a happy re-union can be obtained,
through the merits of a precious redeemer.
from the success which lias attended this
enterprise, and the interest manifested in it by
our ladies, we are confident of ultimate suc
cess —for what is there that is high, honora
ble, or ennobling, that men cannot accomplish
when aided and encouraged by lovely
woman.”
to you, ladies, are we much indebted for
your presence to-day, and through your fu
ture efforts in assisting to decorate these bu
rial lots, shall we, by divine blessing, be ena
bled, at a time not far distant, to point with
pleasure to the olive cemetery” as a memo
rial of the enterprising spirit of the colored
citizens of the city and county ot philadel
phia.
at the conclusion of which he also read
a copy of the act of incorporation, and an
nounced the contents of the box, which was
handed to the rev. wm. douglass, wdio, in
an appropuale and impressive manner, laid
the corner stone. after which the rev.
stephen smith was introduced to the audi
ence, and proceeded to portray the signs of
progress exemplified by the occasion lor
which we had assembled he adverted to the
noble eflbrta exerted by those gentlemen fore
most in this enterprise, as well as the efforts
of those w ho came to their assistance—the lot
holders. for, said he, as 1,000 lots are al
ready sold, he hoped that before another six
months had expired, another 1,000 would be
sold for the people feci an interest in tins
cemetery, and it was, therefore, upon a good
bitik. he was happy in being present to
wanes.* the laying of this comer slone, for it
is the first that has been laid in the united
stale*.
alter a few more remarks, mr. smith con
cluded, and the president introduced freder
ice douglass, ksq., oratoi of the day.
to attempt to jxirlray the beautiful and ap
propriate address of mr. douglass, would be
lolly. i can only say that his oration was
worthy of the man arid the occasion. he
enchained the attention of his audience for
nearly an hour, in a sublime and masterly
style. the eloquent speaker said— whilst
1 am proud of your enterprise, i also mourn
at its necessity, that at this enlightened a go—
in this so-called republican and ehttsuan
country—the gtave is not permitted to be the
leveler of distinctions but that the ashes of
the poor, injured, colored man, must have
a distinct and separate shelter. but be
thanked god, and was happy to know, that
such distinctions would not, could not, be tol
erated in the burial of the dead upon this now
consecrated spot; tint all, as children of one
common (ether, rosy rest bon; that the deep
ly injured black man, and his once proud op
pressor, the white nan, any el amber upon
this beautiful ground, until they are called to
gin an account af their atewardahip.”
1 repeat, to attempt to follow mr. doue
lam* would be mn, suffice it to my that his
chaste and sublime oration will long be re
membered by bia delighted auditory.
thus ended the eenmoniea of laying the
coiner stone of the chapel and dedication o!
the olire cemetery.”
yours truly,
a subscriber.
thou fawt bid (tvm the w»*e sad
prudent, and hart revealed them unto babe*.”
it in a strange thought, bat not more straogn
than true, that, to become cognisant of the
highest truths, we moat be bumbled and be
come as little children not in the pride
of human intellect; not in the exaltation of
reason to the throne of the divinity not in
the rushing whirlwind of tboagbt, nor in the
burning flame of the wildest aspiration but
in the silence and the calm of an bumbled and
subdued spirit does the still, small voice of
eternal wisdom make itself audible and an
nounce its teachings of the everlasting veri
ties. it was so in the day of that ancient and
gifted man of god, who listened for his ma
ker’s voice in the whirlwind and in the flame,
and heard it not; but who received it when it
came as a still, small voice, with reverential
abasement of soul, veiling his fsoe in his man
tle, and listening to it at the door of bis cave
in the lonely wilderness, —and so it will al
ia ays be to the end of the world. never per
haps was theie more need for mankind to re
member these truths than at the present day
yet, alas! how many have forgotten them;
how many of the intellectual giants of our
age have stumbled at the simplicity of the
iross of christ—as the jews of old also re
ceived not the savior in his guise of a lovely
nfant, but looked for him as a great king who
ihould at once restore the kingdom to israel.
like the fabled jearus, these lofty ones have
trusted to the waxen wings of human reason
ind intellect to bear them through all the ex
panse of the spiritual universe;—but when
they approached its central tun, their plumes
were all too weak, and they were plunged in
to an abyss of doubt and error.
the love of god, in christ jesus, is this
central fire of the spiritual universe this vast
mystery which human reason cannot pierce;
this most holy place, on which none but the
anointed eye of a child-like faith may gaze
undazzled this bush w hich ever burns with
out being consumed, from which the angel of
god’s presence is heard exclaiming—“ draw
not nigh hither put off thy shoes from off
thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest
is holy ground.” and so these gie&t ones
have fallen before the “stumbling-block which
is laid in zion have erred before the simpli
city of that wisdom, which has been in all
ages to the wisegieeks, foolishness.”
pride of intellect is one prevailing blight
of our age. it seems that it is too humilia
ting for those, who, on the strong wings of
thought, have traversed the wide regions of
created wonder, calmly to fold these wings,
even in the presence of uncreated light—al
jeit the archangels themselves veil, with their
leavenly pinions, their adoring eyes before
he mysteries of the triune godhead.
whitehaven, (eng.) h. m. p.

miss hhadd’s pamphlet.
philadelphia, april 23, 1849.
frederick douglass :—dear sir—miss!
shadd has published a small pamphlet, con
taining twelve pages, called hints to the
colored people of the north.” i had a num
ber of them in my possession to dispose of;
but 1 have not been able, as yet, to sell more
than three or four in about two months. as
a reader of the north star, i have been
w'atching very carefully, for the last six
months, for some of our able and distinguish
ed waiters in this city to take some notice ol
this little document, but have watched in vain.
it has been widely circulated in this city, but
i believe very little money has been paid for!
it. in fact some have said that had they
known that the work contained some things
which it does, they would not have had it as
a gift; but what the objectionable part is, i
have yet to learn, unless it be its telling too
much truth—particularly in setting the condi
tion of our people in its true light.
1 understand that the author of this pamph
let is a daughter of a. d. shadd, esq., of
westchester, in this state. she says:—
feeling, as i do, that my destiny is that
of my people, it is a duty to myself, setting
aside the much-ridiculed maxim that charity
begins at home,’ to expose every weakness, to
exclaim against every custom that helps pro
long our day of depression. 1 shall, there
fore, not by raillery or ridicule, seek to arouse
you but as one who, by assent, if not by ac
tual participation, has aided in this complex
ion of things, speak plainly and without fear.
we thought, in connection with professional
men, as the whites had such, we should, as
they do, make a grand display of ourselves;
we should have processions, expensive enter
tainments, excursions, public dinners and sup
pers, with beneficial institutions, a display of
costly apparel, and churches on churches, to
minister to our vanity; we forget that cir
cumstances alter caseswe forget that we
are, as a people, deficient in the needful to
support such things. the praise that would
be bestowed upon us, was incense to our sus
ceptible imaginations, instead of gall and
wormwood to our souls, as it should have
been, and as it really is to our hopes, if we
continue to follow this policy. what profits
a display of ourselves is it to be seen by
one another 1 how does that better our con
dition as a people 1 is it to be seen and ad
mired by the whites j why, the very people
who tell you, our people eclipsed ours on
a public occasion your ladies and gentle
men compare favorably with outs in appear
ance on the street your society’s regalia
looked becoming and neat when mr. or mia.
was butted say the colored people are
spending their money for velvet sod gold now,
and in winter they will be dependent on pub
lic chanty.’ the colored caricature the
whites, their employer*, silly people they
attend oil to their exterior! negroes and
indiana aet more value on the outside of their
heads than on what the inside needs 1 they
(blacks) are glad when one of their number
dies, that they nay walk in proeessioo, and
show their regalia.’ there is a continual
cnuciam on our aetiooa being indulged ut
contempt of ns. and aboae showered lavishly
upon a*, bt our avowed enemies and pretend
ad friends while our tine friend* ar e and at
heart beeanae of *rahaw» lira grasp
ing at straws.*"
what thu.k you ot the language of thta
young sinter, who now residing m a sdsvc
bolding .stale 1 do** she tell the truth m
not aa one man 1 am sorry that i hare to
answer in the aftnnative yes, well may she
say that our true friend# are aad at heart be
cause of our weakness, which cause she has
so handsomely detnonstraied to the foregoing
extract. 1 do not know of any of oat true
friends who give any countenance to these un
necessary and expensive regalia displays hot
i do know that whenever one of those regalia
institutions turns out in the street to a funer
al, or on any other occasion, the pro-slavery
newspapers puff them up to a great extent
yea, the tery newspapers that, in by-gooe
days, had aided in the burning of uor church
es, halls and private dwellings when we had
dared to utter a single cotnplsiut against the
oppressors of our rsce, and are ready to do it
now. j- b. y.
the new e«f i mad aatf-slatery com
twum
met at the melodeon on tuesday at 10
o’clock a. m.
the convention was organized by the
choice of the officer*; vixpresident,
wendell phillips, of boston; vice preai
denta, esmond quincy, peter libby, of
maine. e. hebard, of vt., job t. angeu,
of conn., francia jackaon of boston, george
doughty, of new york; secretaries, samuel
may, jr., of leicester, henry h. brigham,
of abingtou, eliza j. kensy, of salem.
the following persons were appointed a
business committee, rizvl m. l. garri
son, s. s. foster, parker phillsbury, fred
erick douglass, c. c burleigh, abßy k.
foster, lucy stone, annie w. weston, j.
c. clafton.
wm. l. garrison, from the business com
mittee, reported the subjoined resolutions
resolved, that the experience, observation
and reflection of the past year have deepened
our conviction of the soundness of those
principles and the wisdom of those measures,
by the promulgation and prosecution of which
we have been hitherto laboring to promote
the anti-slavery cause and that we now re
affirm our belief that it is at once the policy
and the duty of abolitionists to push on this
great enterprise with unflagging zeal and
energy,on the firm ground of “no union with
slaveholders in church or state.
resolved, that in the language of thtf
rev. john burnet of london, “if we are
thorough anti-slavery men, and believe that
slavey is a sin against god, we believe that
is a sinful church which sanctions slavery,
and we must leave it.”
resolved, that (in the language of the
rev. dr. morrison, of london,) “we firm
ly believe that america is the main pillar
which now upholds slavery throughout the
world; and we believe, also, the main pillar
of slavery in america, both as regards slave
holding principle, and the detestable prejudice
against persons sf color, is the supinenesss,
the guilty supineness, and the truckling,
time-serving conduct of her christian min
isters, who do not boldly lift up their voices
against those great and crying abominations."
resolved, that (in the* language ot some
distinguished divine) “far, far better would
it be for the north to give up her relation
with the south, by winch relation a system is
upheld, which is most nefarious in the eyes
of god and of good men, than to retain her
connexion, and with it her slaveholding spirit
and institution.”
mr. garrison moved that no. 1 be taken
up for discussion.
the resolution was discussed by c. c.
burleigh, j. n. boffum, j. a. innis, wm.
l. garrison, wm. a. white and wendell
phillips. —emancipator and republican.
the negroes takinjg sides. —the st.
louis union says that it learns from a gentle
man from the western part of missouri, that
a large number of colored persons in the
border counties south of the missouri river,
had become dissatisfied with their old religi
ous organization, and had gone over to the
“north’ division of the methodist episcopal
church.
this is not strange. the greater wonder
is that any of them should stay a single day
in connexion with a church thousands ol
whose members aie shutting their fellow men
out from the light of revelation, and holding
them in bondage tenfold worse than egyp
tian. it is also matter of wonder that out
colored brethren, if they must be methodists,
do not become wesleyans, the only body of
methodists that debars slaveholders irom their
communion. —concord free press.
census of the united states.— the
late act of congress, making arrangements
for taking the next census, provides that the
secretaiy of state, the attorney general,
and the post master general, shall constitute
and be a board to be styled the census
board. in addition to the number of inhabi
tants, information is to be collected in regard
to agriculture, commerce, mines, manufac-.
lures, education, &c.
the expedition in search of sir john i
franklin.—a dispatch from washington i
states that our government intends despatching!
forthwith, two of the national ships in search
of the lost exploring expedition of sir john
franklin, in the arctic seas one to go east,!
around cape labrador, and through davis"
straits—the other west, to behring’s straits.

rapid writing.—this rooming a lad who j
has somewhat distinguished himself as a
rapid phonographic writer, was in our office
in company with mr. dyer, and gave ua
some specimens of his great ability as a re
porter. his name is d. f. murphy, and it
is now nearly a year since he uegan to take
lessons. but notwithstanding his very litni
ed practice, he is known to be the most rapid
writer in the world. a friend read to him to
day and he reported the reading at the rate of
180 words in a minute with the most perfect
accuracy, reading the matter off after it was
written with as much fluency a«if it had been
printed in clear letter press. we never wit
nessed a more astonishing exhibition. it is,
indeed, a wonderful art, and ought to be ex
tensively taught in our public schools. whal
a labor-saving machine it would be to a
lawyer, a judge, a clergyman or indeed to
any body— brooklyn (a.) y. eagle.
not at all improbable. —w. w. brown,
the very able and popular anti-slavery lec
turer, a mulatto, bright loth in complexion
and intellect, said last sunday evening at the
treraont temple, “i am by blood one of the
aristocrats of the country, and i am exceed
ingly sorry to state that 1 have been credibly
informed that zachary taylor, the president
of this great republic, is a near relative of
lame, —which reminds roe of the fact that a
man can have very bad relatives.”—chrono
tyr*-
supposed slaver.—the brig susan, capt.
wallord, ot new york, sailed from rio jan
eiro on tbe sth february, bound to angola,
on the coast of africa, and was captured near
rio janeiro by the u. s. brig perry, lieut.
com. darls, on suspicion ofbeing engaged in
i the trade, and under command of lieut.
r hunter, aa pttse-maatet, wa* «ent to this
errantry, with twelve passengers on hoard.
r homwopatht —it stated to tbe €rocro
f nan mercury, that in 158 cases of cholera
treated hom«op**hicany in that city, between
90th april and 15lh may, hi drs. piute and
1 ehrmann, ml a single death occurred. dr.
i peck, of the same school, report* m eases,
t aod no deaths
tke hanging mm i wkm mu u
(fraaa aecwwihpe.j
while uie law and ike gonpd were p
paring their machinery of death oa the mmim,
the gaping crowd on the —kit ef the jail
were not idle.
the doors of nearly all the dwelting-bonero
and stores on lowhi, causeway, hrmeit,
onung and wall-streets were inched or btock
aded with police. ()o cmtm* and wall ala.
the crowd was quite large. from these two
streets the gallows could be seen very plain,
with its rope and cap dangling in the bteeae.
the anxiety of the spectators to see the deed
consummated was intense. we saw children
fighting tor places; wopnen that crowded the
windows laughing and jesting with the rab
ble—the boose-tops, with few exceptions,
were lined with group* of men and women
eager to view the bloody work. they re*
tamed their position for about two hours, not
withstanding the raio.
expressions of the moat diabolical nature
were constantly put forth by the vulgar and
profane, of which the crowd was mostly com
posed. here and there a discussion arose as
to the right of hinging. we listened.
a stranger expressed his belief that it was
wrong to kill goode; whereupon a being
wearing the form of man, and who is better
explained by hia language than by any thing
else, remarked—
god d—n it, don’t the scriptures say that
the d—d black scoundrel ought to be hung
no,’ replied the stranger.
i’ll be g—d d —d if they don’t,’ added
the theological expounder.
now what church this latter saint belongs
to, or what divine preaches to him, we did
not learn but we think hia reasoning about
as logical as the orthodox brother’s, who told
us the other day that if capital punishment
should be abolished in massachusetts, he
would move into some other commonwealth
where it existed.
we noticed one man of a party of four,
who seemed extremely anxious to have the
stork go on. he frequently burst foith in
grains similar to the following, which oar
oood pencil enables ns to remember: bring
tut the d——d nigger.’ give ns a look at
he son of a b h.’
another exclaimed, tear down the wall,
and let us see his d—>—d black face.’ quar
ter the scoundrel—hanging is too good for
him,' ejaculated a third.
when the drop fell, and the hangman had
finished his salat led job, a fiendish shout rent
the air of— down with your umbrellas, and
let’s see the bloody nigger swing.’
the deed done, the crowd in groups de
parted
six boys, whose ages varied from twelve j
to seventeen years, particularly attracted our
attention by tbeir bold and daring expressions.
one was recognized by the police as a notori
ous thief, having been in the house of cor- j
rection several times. arguing from an old
proverb that birds of a feather flock togeth
er,’ we were led to suppose the other five but
very little better than the one we have de
scribed, who, on being asked—
how would you like to have that come on
you, bill?’ answered—
‘oh by g—d, that’s nothing; it’s all ovet
in a second.’
ejaculations like those we have recorded
were as plentiful as the rain that fell all the
while in torrents, and which kept at bay thou
sand, who, by
that low vice, curiosity,’
would have increased the motley crowd until
every wall was scaled, and every street filled,
for ’us our opinion that more staid away from
fear of a drenching, than from good prin
ciple.
rum-shops in the vicinity did what might
be called a smashing business. smoking was
very common in the crowd, a thing very unu
sual in our streets.
in passing leverctt street to our office, we
dove into the living sea, and floated with
them. we picked up some drift wood. we
will give a stick or two.
one man expressed deep regret that that
d d spear couldn’t have been strung up
with him.
another said, if old wright of the gran
nytype’ could be swung up, he’d pay the ex
pense of the deed. we feel duly grateful for
the compliment.
the most appropriate act that came under
our observation during the day was by mr.
chase, the daguerreotypist, who closed his
place of business, shrouding it in crape, and
issued a handbill, stating that a brother was
to he hung, and that he should do no business
during the. day.
terrible time in south carolina.—
there has been a great convention at colum
bia, in the kingdom of south carolina, to
take into consideration the grievances and
dangers of the south,” in reference to the
slavery question. resolutions of the most
chivalrous character were passed. one of
them requests the governor of the state to
convene the legislature on the passage of the
wilraot proviso by congress, or a bill for the
abolition of slavery in the district of colum
bia. what would be the next thing done, we
are not informed —doubtless something dread
ful. we infer this from the following para
graph in the charleston mercury. it says—
let the insulting and insufferable aggres
sions of free lj»r and 4 free soilere be
met with the sward, instead of stale 4 resolves'
about our rights as guaranteed by the consti
tution, w hich they contemn and despise.”
allah be praised we rhode islanders are
measurably secuie on account of distance,
from the clutches of these tenible fellows;
but if they should come, we hope gov. an
thony will order out them big guns.— prat.
transcript.
the overflow at new-orleaas.
the water in the rear of the city is still
advancing toward the river. during the
twenty-four hours ending about 9 o'clock last
evening, there was a rise of three to four
inches, and from the time the rise commenced
on sunday mormug, to 3 o’clock yesterday,
a water guage showed a rise of 9 1-9 inches.
this depth of water rapidly spreads over a
surface as nearly level as the ground upon
which new-orleans is built, and the inunda
tion, in the district north of the new canal,
has penetrated far beyond the eeoter of the
city. all the streets, from the canal to corn
mom st. aie completely covered, as low as
circus-st, and some of them are nearly so, as
far as phillippa-st. common and canal sts.
are almost navigable fo carondelet-st. and be
low canal,»s far as st. louis-st. the inunda
tion extends very newly to bourboo-st. be
yond that, the ground being high, the flood is
bounded by a line from the intersection of st.
louis and dauphin sts. to the old basin,
and below, is entirely free of water. our
citizens need scarcely b told that the great
and rapid rise which baa taken place in tbs
last few daya, incresses the number of suffer
ers in the rear of the city, and adds vastly iff
the losses sod distress uf those who werp
already victims of the calamity—(a- o.
delta, *23 h.
the saul* ceevasce.—we visited the
crevasse yesterday afternoon, and wo mast
ny that the appearance of things there bes
peaks anything but a speedy prospect of stop
wntthe breads. the force st work seemed
aiuguiarly small, when we take into e nasi jen
lioo the vast interests at stake, and the terri
ble suffering and loss that every how the
crevasse remains open, entails on the whole
cay .—.v. o. deha. 23d.
beware of smaxss.—the overflow has
brought ivfl*? numbers of snakes and other
reptiles from the swamp op into the street*.
conger snakes, the mom venoms known
m this country, bate been seen in the water
in several places nothin the last few days.
tp d we learned from good authority lam
evening that a utils girl, while wading in the
water in fonboorg trams, h*.
was bitten by something which she did act
ana, and died m a ew hours afterwards.
a correepoutkitil wads t» a copy of the
j charleston (s. c.) mercury, with the follow
ing narrative marked, and a request on the
margin, to publish it with comments. the
liberator lasi week, published it giving at
the mate nine, comment* by a correspondent,
which very well express our itntmtenta.
we give both
kioto the lloair journal
the ni«;lft funeral of
slave.
travelling recently on buainesa, in
the interior of georgia,l reached, just
at sunset, the mansion of the proprietor
through whose estate, for the last half
hour of my journey, i had pursued my j
way. my tired companion pricked his j
ears, and with a low whinny, indicated
his pleasure as i turned up the broad
avenue leading to the house. calling
to a black boy in view, i made him in
quire of his owner if i could be accom
modated with lodgings for the night.
my request brought the proprietor
himself to the door, and from thence to
the gate, when, after a scrutinizing
glance at my person and equipments, he
inquired my name, business, and desti
nation. i promptly responded to his
j questions, and he invited me to alight
i and enter the house, in the true spirit of
southern hospitality.
he was apparently thirty years of
age, and evidently a man of education
and refinement. i soon observed an
air of gloomy abstraction about him;
i he said but little, and even that little
i seemed the result of an effort to obviate
the seeming want of civility to a strang
er. at supper, the mistress of the man
sion appeared, and did the honors of
the table in her particular department;
she was exceedingly lady-like and
j beautiful. she retired immediately
after supper, and a servant handing
some splendid havannas on a small
silver tray, we had seated ourselves
comfortably before the enormous fire of
oak wood, when a servant appeared at
the. end door near my host, hat in hand,
and uttered, tu subdued hut distinct
tones, the, to ine, startling words—
’massa, de coftin hab come.*
‘very well,’ was the only reply, and
the servant disappeared
my host remarked my gaze of in
quisitive wonder, and replied to it:—
j ‘1 have been sad, sad,’ said he, ‘to
day. i have had a greater misfortune
than 1 have experienced since my fa
ther’s death. 1 lost this morning the
truest and most reliable friend i had in
the world—one whom i have been ac
customed to honor and respect since
my earliest recollection; he was the
playmate of my father’s youth, and the
mentor of mine; a faithful servant, an
honest man, and sincere christian. i
stood by his bedside to-day, and with
his hands clasped in mine, i heard the
last words he uttered: they were,
“master, meet me in heaven!”
his voice faltered fora moment, and
he continued after a pause, with in
creased excitement—
‘his loss is a melancholy one to me.
if i left my home, i said to him, “john,
see that all things are taken care of,”
and i knew that my wife a-d rvh
property and all, were assail i
they were guarded by a hundred sold
iers. i never spoke a harsh word to
him in all my life, for he never merited
it. i have a hundred others, many of
them faithful and true, but his loss is
irreparable.’
1 came from a section of the union
where slavery does not exist; and i
brought with me all the prejudices
which so generally prevail in the free
states in regard to this ‘institution.’ i
had already seen much to soften these,
but the observation of years would have
failed to give me so clear an insight in-
j to the relation between master and
servant as this simple incident. it was
not the haughty planter the lordly tyrant
talking of his dead slave as of his dead
horse, but the kind-hearted gentleman,
lamenting the loss and eulogizing the
virtues of his good old friend.
after an interval of silence, iny host
resumed
’there are,’ said he, many of the
old man’s relatives and friends who
would wish to attend his funeral. to
afford them opportunity, several plan
tations have been notified that he will
be buried in the night; some, i presume,
jhave already arrived; and desiring to
i see that all things are properly prepared
1 for his interment, i trust you will ex
j cuse my absence a few moments.’
‘most certainly, sir; but,’ i added,
‘if their is no impropriety, i would be
pleased to accompany you.’
‘there is none,* he replied; and i
i followed him to one of a long row of
cabins, situated at the distance of some
three hundred yards from the mansion.
the house was crowded with negroes;
all arose on our entrance, and many of
them exchanged greeting with iny host,
in tones that convinced me that they
i felt that he was an object of sympathy
•from them! the corpse was deposit
i ed in the cofliu, attired in a shroud of
j the finest cotton materials, and the cofiin
itself painted black.
the master stepped at his head, and
laying his hand upon the cold brow of
his faithful bondsman, gazed long and
intently upon features with which he
had been so long familiar, and which
he now looked upon for the last time on
earth; raising his eyes at length, and
glancing at the serious countenances
now bent upon bis, he said solemnly,
and with much feeling—
‘he was a faithful servant and true
christian; if you follow hia example,
and live as he lived, none of you need
fear when the time comes for you to iie
here.’
a patriarch, with the snow of eighty
winters on his head, answered—
‘master, it is true, and we will try
to live like him.’
there wat a muiiuci ol general as
sent and after giving some instructions
t relative »u the hurtal, we returned to
the building.
i about nine o'clock, a servant ap
j peered, with the nutice that they were
ready to move, and to know if further
instructions were necessary. my boat
i remarked that, hv stepping mto the
piazza, i would probably behold, to
t»e,a ii d«i scene the procnaatan had
moved, and its route led within a few
y arde of tlie mansion thera were one
hundred and negroes, arranged^
deep, end following a wagon in which
waa pieced the coma; down the entire
length of |be line, at intervals of a few
feet on each side, were carried torches
of the resinous pine* here called light
wood. about the centre was statiooed
the black preacher, a man of gigantic
frame and stentorian lungs, who gave
out from memory the words of a hymn
auitable to the occasion the south
ern negroes are proverbial for the melo
dy and compass of their voices, and i
thought that hymn, mellowed by dis
tance, the most solemn and yet the
sweetest music that had ever fallen up
on my ear. the stillness of the night,
and strength of their voices, enabled
me to distinguish"their voices at the dis
tance of half a mile.
it was to me a strange and solemn
scene, and no incident of my life has
impressed me with more powerful emo
tions than the night funeral of the poor
negro. for this reason, i have hastily
and most imperfectly sketched its lead
ing features.
comments by the liberator.
perhaps this paper may fall into the
hands of some one so little acquainted
with the gospel of anti-slavery as to
wonder why the article headed as above
should be placed in the ‘refuge of op
pression.’
it is not that the story is not true, as
far as its statements of facts are con
cerned. very many cases of such a
relation between master and slave are
known to exist (perhaps even as many
as one in five thousand of the whole
three million of slaves); and every
abolitionist could have told you this
long ago, not only from testimony, but
from the nature of man, which is not
rooted out and destroyed, hut only in
jured, by vicious institutions.
we need not waste a word upon the
critical acumen of the narrator of this
incident, whose ‘prejudices,’in favor of
liberty had been already softened,' and
who received ‘so clear an insight into
the relation between master and slave,’
by seeing for one night one phase of
that complicated relation, and that one
—a funeral. but our thoughts may be
profitably turned to some incidents of
the story.
the slaveholder here mentioned
seems to have been not only one of the
class commonly misnamed ‘kind mast
ers,’ but to have been so far ‘hardened
in piety,' as not only to disregard the
affecting exhortation lo repentance ad
dressed to him by the dying bondman,
but to use the patience, the meekness,
the venerable age and extensive in
fluence of the deceased as an engine to
affect the religious sensibilities of the
hundred surviving slaves, and impress
upon them the monstrous falsehood
that their eternal welfare depends on
their implicit submission to his will.
think of this a moment.
the slaveholder patronises the fune
ral of his slave by attendance on part
of its services. it is doubtless a gratifi
cation to his own feelings to do so. no
one could lose a servant who had been
attached to his person and eminently
useful to him for thirty years, without
some emotion. but this attendance is
also imperatively dictated by his pe
cuniary interest, and is far more profit
able than any ordinary business tran
sactions. his daily problem is to find
the easiest means of compelling fifty
men and women to work for him with
out wages, and the cheapest means of
supporting them in good working order.
chains and the lash are unpleasant,
and diminish the facility and therefore
the productiveness of labor. if the ob
ject can be attaiued by working on their
affections, so much the better. hire a
minister to preach to them that heaven
is the reward of patient, submissive,
unreasoning industry, and hell the just
punishment of liars, thieves and runa
ways, and half the work is done. then
a few’ presentn judiciously distributed,
(only think of a debtor, who is determ
ined never to pay, making a present to
each of his creditors of a silver dollar
every christmas!) and a few expres
sions of persona! regard, as attendance
on weddings and funerals, and the other
half is done. the painted coffin, and
the shroud of finest cotton, are highly
profitable investments, as they suggest
the idea of favors and privations to
minds which might otherwise be occu
pied with the thought of that justice
which is denied them. attentions of
this sort not only gratify the sympa
thizing and unreflecting mind of the ne
gro, and prevent him from thinking
that these funeral expenses, so kindly
given by the master, have been earned,
a thousand times over, by the unpaid la
bor of the deceased slave; but they
render him more content with the ar
rangement which robs himself, day by
day and year by year, ofthe avails of
his own labor, the control of his own
body, the society of his wife, and the
superintendence of his children. nay.
more! these attentions prepare him to
receive soberly, without a shout of
derision or denial, and as if it were in j
some sort true, the preposterous asser
tion that a slave's fitness for death and
chance of happiness after death depend
upon iiis faithful obedience to a slave
holder. is it, then, a merit in the
slaveholder to bestow them? is it noti
rather a proof of intolerable impudence
and hardness of heart, that he can
use the occasion of his victim’s funeral j
to say solemnly and with much teeiing,
to the survivors, that their souls’ wel
fare depends on their patient acquies
cence in hia usurpation of ownership
over them?
yet people are found to say such
things, and others are found to believe
them' c. k. w.
the dying slave.
he lay on a straw couch, with his
face half turned towards the sinking
sun.—the skin was drawn tightly over
his forehead, as though it was parched
and shrunken by extreme age; but the
restless sad uneasy vmuenngs of u*&
eye told that he still claimed some
romnsirtpshin with ear]*’ fvr
rfe was a slave and for more than an
hundred years he had gone forth to the
daily toil of a bondman. it was said
that in the father-laud from which he
had been lorn by unprincipled violence,
ha bad been prince among bis people.
in the first days of his slavery, he had
been fierce and ungovernable, nor
could bis haughty m ini aver be buaad
into sabjsyo until m bad been twh
1 4
dued bjr gratitude the father of bill
present master had, in his childhood,
(bv tulerfering to save "him from punish- j
meat, received on his can body the
blows intended for the slave; and from!
that moment be became to his youthful!
master a devoted servant the child
had grown op to manhood, flourished
throughout his term of' fears, and faded
awgyr into the grave, bnt still the aged
african lingered upon the earth; and it;
was for the son of that man that he now
waited, and, to use hi* own expression, j
1 “held back his breath." until he should
behold him.
at length the light of the low cabin
door was darkened, as the master stoop- i
edhis tall form to enter the dwelling of i
his slave. “i have come," said he, as;
he approached; t( wbat would you do
with me?”
‘there is one boon that i would crave
of you:—l am going home —to revisit
the scenes of my youth —to mingle with j
the spirits of my friends! —suffer me not
to return to them a slave! my fathers
j were proud chieftains among their na
tive wiida—they sought out the lion in
1 the midst of his secret recesses—they
subdued the strength of the savage ti
ger—they were conquerors in battle—
they never bowed to man—they would
i spurn a bondman from their halls! oh
tell me exclaimed he, seizing his
master's hand in the rising excitement
of his feelings,—‘oh tell me, while i
may yet hear the sound, that i am once
more free!’
‘your wish is granted,’ said his mast
er, ‘you are a freeman.’
‘a freeman!’ repeated the negro
slowly sinking back upon his couch,
and clasping his hands above his head
with all his remaining energy—‘write it
for me master!’
the gentleman tore a leaf from his
pocket book and penciling a hasty cer
tificate of his freedom, handed it to the’
slave. the old man lifted up his head,
l once more, as he received it, and the
last ray of sunlight streamed across his
countenance, as with a strange smile he
gazed upon the paper; then falling
suddenly back, he once more repeated
the name of freedom, and expired.
*i elizabeth m. chandler
music w ith a mkaxinc.
at that time an intimate and highly
accomplished friend of my wife, who
was also a very sensible woman, a fine
musician, and considered one of the j
best private performers in the coun
try, came on a visit. the conversa
tion turned on music, and coleridge,
speaking of himself, observed i believe
‘i have no ear for music, but i have a
taste for it.’ he then explained the]
delight he received from mozart, and;
how greatly he enjoyed the dithyram
bic movement of beethoven; but could j
never find pleasure in the fashionable
modern composers. it seemed to him
‘playing tricks with music, like non
sense verses. music to please me,’
added he, ‘must have a subject. 5 our
friend appeared struck with this obser
vation. ‘i understand you, sir,’ she,
replied, and immediately seated herself
at the piano.—‘have the kindness to
listen to the following parts, which 1
played on a certain occasion extempore,
as substitutes for words. will you try
to guess the meaning i wish to convey,
and i shall then ascertain the extent of
my success.’ she instantly gave us
the first air. his reply was immediate,
‘that is clear; it is solicitation.’;
‘when i played this air,’ to a dear
friend whom you know, she turned to
me, saying. ‘what do you want?’— j
i told her the purpose of my air was to|
draw her attention to her dress, as she
was going out with me to take a drive
by the sea shore with her cloak.’ our
visitor then called coleridge’s attention
to her second air; it was short and ex
pressive. to this he answered, ‘that
is easily told; it is remonstrance.’
‘y es,’ replied she, ‘for my friend again
showing the same inattention, i played
this second extemporaneous air, in or-j
der to remonstrate with her, 5 we now
listened to the third and last air. he
requested her to repeat it, which she
did. to this she replied, it is i be
lieve, a failure’, naming at the same
time the subject she had wished to con
vey. coleridge’s answer was. ‘that
is a sentiment and cannot be well ex
pressed in music.’— gillman'a life °f
coleridge.
the governor ani) the mad
man.
one of the “oldest inhabitants" of
our city has furnished me with the fol
lowing anecdote of old gov. leverett,
as an illustration ofthe force of courage
and ingenuity upon a madman.
one morning, many years ago, a
stout, buily-buili mauiac, in a parox
ism of insanity, burst out of the asy
lum, and in his way, a musket, heavily
loaded, fell into his hands. with this
formidable weapon, mounted with the
terrible bayonet, the madman rushed
out into the city, and pretty effectually
cleared the street he was “marching
along." turning a corner, he sud
denly came upon gov. leverett, and
was on the point of making a point
blank charge upon the vitals of the old
governor, who, comprehending his
danger, in a single glance at the fellow,
when the governor suddenly drawing
himself up square and firmly before his
dreadful antagonist, he hailed him
thus:
“ho! brother soldier, have you
learned your exercise?”
“yes, i have!”said the fellow, with j
a great oath.
“then, brother,” said the governor,
“stand to your arms, like a valiant
soldier, while i give the word of com-:
mand.”
the madman seemed pleased, andj
stood bolt upright, with musket fitted!
cfose to his shoulder, in regular dnllj
order.
“poise your firelock!” the fellow dt
so; “rest your tireiock!” the fellow
obeyed; “ground your firelock!” ttits
'-vmmm, to tne rtgm showi— i
march!" says the governor, and as'
the madman wheeled and stepped away, i
the governor quickly ran up behind, 1
seized the powerful fellow and the t
musket, tad held hue until several
lookers oe—«tending at safe distance
and watching this curious scene—came
to the governor's assistance, and tbs'
madman wan secured, awi earned
buck in 'an awful rage, to his quarters
