there is trouble brewing in south
carolina. the rest of the union does
not seem to be aware of it—but there,
is no doubt of the fact. the genial j
warmth of the spring, instead of ani
mating' hrt* more kindly symapthies,
seemi only to ferment the sap of her
asperity. her patriotism and her pal
mettoes become green together. the
temperature of her heroic ardor rises i
with the mercury, and by the time of t
the dog-days she will be equally ready i
for the hydrophobia or a fight.
the newspapers of south carolina
are talking of committees of safety
and correspondence, non-intercourse,
confiscation, and such revolutionary
things. all this is very alarming; yet
such is the apathy of the public mind,
that we observe no signs of a whole
some terror anywhere. the little state,
is quite in earnest; yet *he public will;
not believe it—and if they did believe;
it, so much is heroism at a discount, j
that we seriously fear nobody would j
care about it.—but, for our own part,
such is the admiration we cherish for
chivalry, that it is always sure of our
applause, even though it appears moun
ted only on the stump, or figures no
where but upon paper. it may be a
perversity of taste, but we must confess
that our idea of a hero is the greater
in proportion as his stature is less; we
prefer gen. thumb to the belgian
giant; and cannot imagine a perfect
champion except in high-heeled boots,
and of such altitude only that he would
have to stand on tip-toe to pull an ad
versary’s nose.
south carolina is remarkable for
perseverance in wrath. she varies
only in the aspect of it. she will not
be in a good humor on any terms. her
nose, like her musket, is always cocked.
shb would consider it an abandonment
of dignity to put on an affable look,
and state rights would be in danger if
she should once relax into a smile. the
price of liberty is eternal vigilance—
and she watches hers so closely that
she has no liberty to do anything else.
the latest pronunciaraento from the
land of lofty doings is to be found in
the south carolinian of the 16th inst.
it is to the followingeffect:—
‘the people of this state may, after
due deliberation and reflection, adopt a
strict non-intercourse in trade and com
merce, as regards the northern states.
this, if adopted, would doubtless have
the same effect, but to make it tho
roughly effective, it must receive the
full consent of the mass of our people.
it must be adopted only after mature
and calm deliberation. yv e want to
see no storm raised within our own
confines; we would deprecate any
measure that would array one portion
of the people of this state against the
other, either in sentiment or action.—
yy hatever course is deemed desirable,
to be of any avail, it must be adopted
with the greatest unanimity.
‘when “agitation” was necessary to
arouse the people, it was our duty to be
diligent in the matter. now that the
people have taken the initiative in their
district meetings, our duty, and the
duty of the press throughout the state,
we believe to be the securing of perfect
harmony and unanimity of opinion in
their further acts and deliberations. to
this task the south srolinian will ap
ply iuelf, and will endeavor to avoid
ihe agitation ct any scheme which might
carry within itself the elements of ;ts
own destruction, and consequently de
feat our purposes. 'confinealion’ of
the property of the people of the north
has beeu hinted at and suggested. we
the north star,
j believe such a proposition wholly in
defeasible at this time. it is an ex
treme measure, and should only be
adopted at the list extremity. and is
there any man of common sense who
does not know that such a procedure
would at once involve us in civil war?
better, far better, would it be for the
whole south calmly to avow their deter
mination to withdraw from the confed
eracy, and define the limits of a new
republic.
‘the course to be pursued—the
mode of action to be adopted—is now,
we consider, entirely in the hands of
the committees of safety and corres
pondence. they must get to work.
the people did not appoint them under
any other expectation but that they
would work. we feel confident they
will not abuse the solemn trust com
mitted to their charge, and that we will
hear from them at an early day.
‘our time or limits will not permit
us to consider the non-intercourse pro
position to-day; we will do so probably 1
hereafter. we believe the suggestion j
to be a good one; and that no better 1
means could be used to bring the people
of the north to their senses. but it
must be the voluntary sacrifice of the
whole people, and must be the policy of
two or more states to render it success
ful to any great extent.’
it is lamentable that with a heart so
set upon treason, this unfortunate com
monwealth should never find her way
to it. the tantalus of states, she
pines within sight of what she longs
for, yet cannot rrach. she is always
baffled when she plots rebellion, and
cannot by any accident stumble upon
it. the disclosure is given forth, how
sver. that it ‘must be the policy of two*
or more states, to render it successful
to any great extent.’
there is the drawback. she would
willingly break into the citadel of the
union, and despoil it of its treasures, 1
but she cannot ventnre w ithout an ac
complice; she must have ‘a centre-bit
and a hoy.” but thus far she sits alone 1
|in the realms of non-content. the au
gusta (ga.) chronicle, one of the best
papers of the south, gives some whole
some advice to the little termagant
state, which the latter, of course,, will
not follow'. the chronicle intimates
that the best way to establish a proper
degree of non-intercourse with the
north is for the people of south caro
lina to manufacture for themselves eve
ry article now made for them in new
england; that anti-abolition resolutions
will not prevent the state from losing
a representative under tne ratio of the
next census; and it has the temehty to
add that a cart-i£|fi of<good, manure
is worth more to tlie
than a thousand such resolutions.’ the
idea! state rights and guano, liberty
and lime—that it should come to this!
disdainful chivalry expands his offend
ed nostrils.
but it is further added, that ‘the trade
and commerce of a small aggregate of
deserted, desolated cotton planiations’
—meaning thereby the magnanimous
state of south carolina—‘will be of
j little consequence to the rest of the
union;’ and that instead of exporting
so many emigrants and their property,
j for which no return whatever is left
j behind, south carolina should take
measures to invite immigrants with their
capital, their industry and their enter
prise, to come and settle permanently
within her limits. but, as we have said,
this advice will not be followed—at
least, not yet. south carolina will
stick to her two staples, politics and
cotton; and as the latter falls off, she
will cultivate the other more largely.—
she will manufacture nothing but reso
lutions. in proportion as she loses her
representatives in congress, those that
remain, like the sybilline books, will
increase in importance as the number
grows less; if but one should be left,
the whole state would scarcely be large
i enough to hold him; if all should dis
appear,she would be represented in the
lower house, as she already is in the
senate, by a gigantic shadow.—balti
more patriot.
froui the syracuse star.
letter from the south.
alabama, march *2o, 1849.
to one who has been pent up for
twenty years in syracuse, with only %n
occasional peep at the country, this few
months'residence, amid scenes ofsoi
much beauty, is charming; but i have
only to look upon the cultivated held, 1
where women are following the plough,
under the direction of a taskmaster, to
be reminded of the system of unrequit
ed toil, which crushes to the earth more
than half the population. the iceland
er says of his ice-bound isle, ‘it is the
pleasantest spot the sun ever shone on;’
and so i am disposed to say of toy
northern home; for though nature may
sometimes wear a cold and dreary garb
and the sun may not shine as bright as
here, its rays fall upon a free, intelli
gent, and enterprising people.
i cannot but feel a deep interest in
the ‘vexed question’ of the day, as i
see it developed in city and conntry and
learn something of its real character.
southern papers teem with what they
call northern aggression, and every one
who stands up in defence of the ‘pecu
liar institution,’ especially if he is a
northerner, is ‘the man they delight to
honor.' in some recent editorials in a
new york religious paper, (the obser
ver,) the slaveholder is apologised for
on the ground that ‘the system was ori
ginally forced upon him, and that the
south has already done more for eman
cipation, than great brittain with her
boasted £20,000,000, that if the north
will not interfere, the south will soon
abolish the system, and the editor longs
for restoration of the state of feeling
and opinion on that subject which exis
ted twenty-five and fifty years ago,
right is or no sex—truth is of no color— god is th$ father of us all, amd all we are brethren.
when no anli-sl a very society existed
north of mason's and dixon’s line.
this he calls ‘the golden age of our
republic.’ extracts from these editori
als are going the rounds oft he southern
papers, amid rejoicings that a paper of
such high authority, can be quoted in
defence of the institution. tne hon.
mr. brown, of pennsylvania, is receiv
ing the compliments of the press, for a
recent speech in congress, in defence
of the south, where he is reported to
have said, *he did not think the same
number of laborers could be found any
where, better clothed and fed, than the
slaves at the south.' but he says they
should be educated, good books put in
their hands, the marriage tie should be
made binding as that of the whites, and
families should not be separated. every
intelligent northerner, who has seen
anything of slavery as it is must know
that the comparison fhadfe between the
slave and the mass of free northern and
western laborers, is alike insulting as
untrue. the alavea of the south are
almost entirely included in two classes,
the field hands or tillers of the soil, and
domestic or house servants.
if we attempt to compare the food
and clothing of the slave, with that of
the free tiller of the soil, and the free
domestic, the comparison will utterly
fail; and even the irish ditcher upon
our canals and railroads can obtain bet
ter clothing, more palatable food and
comfortable shelter for his family, than
is provided for the slave. but i will
only state facts, and leave others to
judge how the home comforts ot the free
and slave laborer will compare. the
food of the slave is of the coarsest and
cheapest possible kind. the former
consists of principally corn meal and
bacon, portioned out to them by an
overseer. they are sometimes allowed
to keep a few fowls, which adds some
thing to their meagre fare. wheat, flour,
molasses, sugar, butter, tea and coffee are
luxuries entirely beyond their reach.
the free laborer returns from his toil,
to his noonday or evening meal, and
plain though it may be, he finds it pre
pared, and partakes of it with the wife
nad children he calls his own. the
slave wife leaves her plough or hoe be
hind her, and returns to her desolate
home, and partakes of a cold prepara
tion, or else the hour usually given to
rest is spent in preparing the necessary
ineal. when the mothers go out to
their employment in the morning, the
infants and young children belonging,
on the plantation are brought together!
and taken care of through the day, by j
some negress appointed for that pur
pose. of their clothing, ii is uneces-
bary to say more than this—it corres
ponds with their houses and food. pro
bably it is as comfortable as though of
a finer texture, bnt as i pass the fields
and see my own sex following the
plough, making fence, or ditching by
the road side, and in such unsightly
garb, hanging, perhaps in rags about
them, 1 feel indignant at the system,
which degrades woman almost to the
level of the brute. but of their houses
i have said nothing. the slave cabins
on the coast between baton rouge and
new orleans are white-washed, and
have a neat appearance from the river;
but from what i have seen in other parts
of the country, 1 am prepared to say,
they are like white-washed sepulchres,
not made for inside examination. negro
houses in the country are built ot logs,
with chimnies of sticks and mud, usual
ly but one room, a rough, unmatched
floor, no windows, sometimes as a sub
stitute, a hole filled by a swing-tight
blind, and not the first article of decent
furniture in them. around the houses
there is not the least appearance of do
mestic comfort, while the ragged cloth
ing, the indian blankets hanging about
and the dirty half clothed childen grow
ing up in filth and ignorance, remind
me of the indian huts on the onondan
go reservation. i had expected to find
them better housed than they are, with
more of the little comforts that every
one loves to gather around his home.
i had heard of the garden patches,
where they could raise vegetables to
sell for their own benefit, and of the
saturday afternoon when they were ex
empt from toil, and could spend their
time for their own profit or amusement;
but all this sounds better abroad, than
here, where facts deny the assertion.
negro houses in the cities, are built
with a little more reference to outside
appearance; but of the inside arrange
ments, little better can be said of them
than those iuthe country.
who can be found to say that the
physical condition of the slave does not
need elevating r ‘but of how small im
portance compared with his condition
mentally.'
in this age of the world, when the
march of reform is onward, and we are
called to w itness the death-throes' of
despotism, and the birth-struggles of
freedom, when humanity is asserting
its rights, and oppression is loosing its
grssp,surely the slave should begin to
take rank in the common brotherhood
ef mam. h.
the false refuge of the
guilty.
it seems by the (baptist; “religous
herald,” of v irginia, one of the pop
ular religous papers of our day, that, af
ter nine years from its publication, a
copy of “charles simmon’s scripture
manual”, has found its way into the
state of virginia, and come under the
eye of the editor of thst paper. the
effect produced on the mind of that gen
tleman is remarkable. the appear
ance of the cholera in richmond, would
not have awakened in him more alarm,
or more aroused bis sanitary precau
ttousnese. the article is a curiosity;
and we copy the whole of it, simply
premising that this terror-exciting book,
aa jui who have read it luiow, is made
rochester, n. y., friday, may 4, 1849.
up of bible passages, arranged agree
ably with the compiler’# judgment, un
der various heads. if there is some
fault in that arrangement, and on some
subjects we think there is, jet there the
reader has the language of the bible,
and can judge for himself whether the
arrangement is right or not. but mr.
sands, the editor, is greatly moved, and
issues his proscriptive bull forbidding
the people to read or buy the danger
ous book. a real romish "papa” could
scarcely have fulminated a louder one
from the vatican. one of the faithful
brought the suspicious book to his no
tice, and deserves to be rewarded with
a dukedom. has the virginian pope
not some rich benefice te bestow upon
him or at least a beautiful slave
*'a contraband articlk.— a friend
has brought to our notices work, which
has been hawked about our city for
some weeks past, and eagerly
pressed upon the attention of the com
munity, as one of extraordinary value.
it is entitled ‘a scripture manual. &c.
by charles simmons, n. y. m. w.
dodd, 1848;’ and is recommended by
many distinguished men of the north.
one of these tells us that ‘the author
has had particular reference to the
prevailing errors of the times.’ this
looks somewhat suspicious, coming as
it does from a northern region; and the
book itself shows that slavery is one of
the errors against which it is aimed.
the author gives us passages of scrip
ture on ‘servitude;’ and then, as some
thing distinct from it, on ‘slavery and
oppression,’ under this latter head,
he says, ‘see rights of man;’ and on
turning to it, we perceive that it is di
rected mainly against our institutions.
—the scriptures are perverted; pas
sages being cited which really have no
reference to the subject. if northern
men choose to pervert the scriptures,
they ought not to palm their impositions
on us; and if they deem slavery a sin,
they ought at least to have the decency
not to attempt to make money by sel
ling their antislavery books to the slave-;
holders. the book is, moreover, un-|
sound in its theology. no baptist—
no southerner—ought to countenance!
it.”
now one word more. "if northern
men deem slavery a sin, they ought at
least to have the decency not to attempt
to make money by selling their antisla
very books to slaveholders.”
plato, seneca, aristotle, daniel, all
truly wise men, come to the rescue!—
come for the defence of the poor ‘slave
holders’!! alas! for the patriarchal
institution of the american—the bap
tist south, if "connecticut pedlars” of
bible passages—‘‘scripture manuals”
—are not crossing that broad
line (it is infinite in breadth, if not in
length) which sepqjafes the land of sla
very’s paradise mm the bible-printing
and even bible “selling” north. to
insult a sinner by offering to sell him a
bible for precious lucre obtained by his
very “sin” too. o, it is anti-republi
can, anti-patriarchal, anti-baptist, and
almost anti-slavery. keep back the
colporteurs. they must never sell a
bible to a sinner. it is wanting in “de
cency” to do so.
gcpsince writing the above, we ob
serve that a colored man is trying to
redeem his wife who is owned by a
“mr. sands.”—ls he the editor of the
religious herald?— christian contri
butor.
exemption in pennsylvania.
the pennsylviania papers give the
recent enactment on this subject, as
under. property, to the value ol three
hundred dollars, is by this bill exempted
from levy and sale in execution and
distress for rent. the bill has passed
both houses, and is now a law.
sec. i. that in lieu of the property
now exempt by law from levy and sale
on execution issued upon any judgment
obtained upon contract, and distress for
rent, property to the value of three
hundred dollars, exclusive of all wear
ing apparel of the defendant and bis
family, and all bibles and school books
in use in the family, (which shall remain
exempted as heretofore,) and no more,
owned by or in possession of any
debtor, shall be exempt from levy and
sale on execution or by distress for
rent.
sec. *2. that the sheriff, constable, or
other officer charged with the execution
of any warrant issued by competent au
thority, for the levying upon and selling
the property, either real or personal, ofj
any debtor, shall, if requested by the
debtor, summon three disinterested and i
competent persons, who shall be sworn
or affirmed, to appraise the property,
which the said debtor may elect to re
tain under the provisions of this act, for
which service the said appraisers ahall be
entitled to recieve fifty cents each, to
be charged as part of the costs of the
proceedings, and property thus chosen
and appraised, to the value of three hun
dred dollars, shall be exempt from levy
and sale on the said execution or war-
rant, excepting warrants for the collec-,
tion of taxes.
sec. 3. that in any case where the
property levied upon aa aforesaid shall
consist of reafes'.aterof greatevalue than
three hundred dollars, and the defend
ant in such shall elect to retain real es
tate amounting in value to the whole
sum of three hundred dollars, or any
less sum, the appraisers aforesaid shall
determine whether, in their opinion,
the said real estate can be divided witb
to injury to or spoiling the whole, and
if the said appraisers shall detenane that
the said real estate can be divided as
aforesaid, then they shall proceed to set
apart so much thereof as in their opin
ion shall be of sufficient to answer the
requirement of the defondant in such
case, designating the same by proper
metes and bounds, all of which proceed
ings shall be certified in writing by the
said appraisers, or a majority of them,
under their proper hands and seals, to
the sheriff, under sheriff, or coroner,
charged with the execution of the writ
in such a case, who shall make return of
the same to the proper court from which
the writ issued, in connection with the
said writ: provided. that this section
shall not be construed to affect or im
pair the liens to bonds, mortgages, or
other contracts, for the purchase mooey
of the real estate of insolvent debtors.
sec. 4. that upon return made of the
writ aforesaid, with the proceedings
therein, the plaintiff in the case shall be
entitled to have his writ of venditioni
exponas as in other cases, to sell the
residue of the real estate included in
the levy aforesaid if the appraisers afore
said shall have determined upon a divi-
sion of the said real estate, but if the
said appraisers shall determine against 1
a division of said real estate, the plain- 1
tiff may have a writ of venditioni expo-!
nas to sell the whole of (he real estate
included in such levy, and it shall and
may be lawful in the latter case, for the!
defendant in the execution to receive
from the sheriff or other officer, of the
proceeds of said sale so much as he
would have recieved at the appraised!
value had the said real estate been di
vided.
sec. 5. that the twenty-sixth section 1
of the act, entitled, an act relating!
to executions,” passed sixteenth june, j
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-;
six and the seventh and eighth sections
of an act entitled "an act in regard to
certain entries in ledgers in the city of
pittsburgh, and relating to the publish
ing of sheriff’s sales and for other pur-1
poses,” passed twenty-9econd april,
one thousand eight hundred and forty-'
six, and all other acts inconsistent with
this act, be and the same are hereby
repealed.
sec. 6 that the provisions of this act
shall not take effect until the fourth day
of july next, and shall apply to debts
contracted on and after that date.
i
discoveries op a peaceful
age.
we cannot recount all the discoveries
of this peaceful age, from a lucifer
match up to a railroad, and from a
steamship down to a pair of guttapercha'
goloshoes. but these discoveries have.
made the modern laborer a mightier'
man than an ancient lord. just look
at your lot, and wonder at your wealth, j
there was your worthy father—when
he wanted to be up betimes, he lost
half the night listening to the village j
clock, and starting up at all hours ex
cept the right one, and when at last,;
a trifle late, he jumped out of bed, and
got hold of the* tinder-box, after ten
minutes’ practice with the flint and
steel, heated but not enlightened,
through sleet and slush he had to seek
his neighbor’s door, and borrow a bur
ning brand.—bat soq'ttdly reposing all
the night, and by an'alarm roused at
the appointed minute, you rasp the
ready match across the sanded surface,
and in a moment are surrounded by an
affluence of the purest light. it was
in the brighton van that your father
traveled, that hard season he visited
the coastrin search of work, and never,
got the better of the long bleak jour-j
ney. but for your own diversion you j
took the trip the other day. you went
in the morning and returned at night,
and it cost you neither cough nor rheu
matism, and less money altogether than
you would have paid for one night’s
jolting in the frosty van. when the
last letter came from your poor brother
in the north—penny stamps were not
invented then—you remember how rue- 1
ful you felt, as the postman refused to j
leave the precious packet, for you had
not in all the house a shilling and three-.
pence halfpenny. and when your un-l
cle broke his leg, and the bungling i
surgeon set it so badly that it had to be
broke and set anew, after all his torture
he never got the full use of it again.
but when you put out your shoulder
blade, you cannot tell how they set it
to rights; for all your remembrance is,
the doctor holding some fragrant es
sence to your nostrils, and you awoke
from a pleasant trance, the arm was
supple, and you yourself all straight
and trim. to peace we are indebted
for cities lit with gas, and rivers alive
with steam. to peace we owe the lo
comotive and the telegraph, which have
made the british towns one capital, and
the remotest provinces the enclosing
park. to peace our thanks are due
for food without restriction, and inter
i course without expense; for journeys
1 without fatigue, and operations without
pain; cheap correspondence, and cheap
corn; railway cars and chloroform.
and to the same bounteous source, or
rather to the giver of peace and of
every perfect gift, we stand beholden
for the hundred expedients which now
combine to make life longer and more
i happy. —tracts by the rer. jama ham
iltoh.
frederick douglas* in new
york.
it is a source of gratification to us to
have the pleasure of his visit in our
city we have never enjoyed hie society
so much as at this time, his visit among
us could not have been more timely;
the cause of improvement among us
requires more labourers, and no one is
i better calculated to make a favourable
impression than ia mr. douglass: be
possesses qualities eminently calcu
lated to make him one of the most use
i fol and important men of the age, he
i is not only useful to our cause as a
t writer but his heart seems to be a foun
tain from which flows the deepest
sympathy for his enslaved and oppres
i and follow men, his social intercourse
also is calculated to prodace the hap
piest results upon thorn with whom be
r mingles, his tfandard of morality is that
common sense kind which commend)
itself to every man’sfcooscience in tlx
sight of god; one cannot mingle in ht
society without profit, and while th<
white people of this country are prom
of their websters, clays, calhouns
jeffersons, and washingtons, am
proudly point to their acts as signs o
i their greatness as a nation, we cat
point at least to our douglass, and whet
we compare him with the above namec
gentlemen, each of whose greatness
i consists in a single trait of character,
mr. douglass possesses a combination
of many of the noble qualities with
which men are endowed, yet we would
have him remember that these are gifts
1 which he has received, and the only
j credit due to him is that he has ctihi
j vated them.
the object of mr. douglass's visit at
i this time among us is two-fold, viz: to
1 lecture to us on the subject of improve
ment, and procure subscribers to the
wyoria star, and to accompany some
friends to his resident in rochester
whom he expects will aime from eu
rope in the sarah sands, steamer; mr.
douglass had an interesting meeting
on monday evening last in brooklyn
where his remarks were listened to with
pleasure and profit, and it is to be hop
ed that he will continue to hold similar
meetings among us during his stay,
and for the credit of new york it is to
be hoped that our churches will be
thrown open to him without charging
him the uttermost farthing; he cannot
have a meeting among us without we
being profited by it. we are happy to
state that two of the churches—mr. pen
nington’s and mr. gloucester’s—have
been thrown open to him without
charge; as for zion’s where he holds a
meeting this wednesday) evening we
shall take occasion to say something at
another time.
c. l. remond our distinguished ad
vocate of equal rights is also here and
will labor in connection with mr. d.
for our improvement, let each man and
woman make it a religious duty to at
tend these meetings, and remember
mr. douglass wants subscriptions to
his paper.— ram's horn.
a country without a custom
house.
the most remarkable point in the
social economy of switzerland, is the
universal principle of freedom in trade,
in which respect it has no equal on the
face of the earth. while in great
britainjthe principles of a free exchange
of commodities are still nothing more
than a theory, in switzerland thev are
a practical good. a free tv;
import are permitted. the government
has no custom house establishment,
either in aeference to the general fron
tiers, or the frontiers of the respective
states; the only impediment to the trans
portation of goods in any direction, is
the exaction of tolls at the rate of
about one pennv per hundred weight,
for the benefit of the cantonal revenues;
from which however, the roads are
kept in repair. at all the great out
lets of switzerland, strayng bodies o
douaniers, or armed custom house of
ficers, are stationed by the authority of
other nations, for the purpose of rigor
ously examining and taxing all articles
that come out of the swiss territory;
but within the swiss side of these out
lets, there are no officials to pay any
attention to anything that comes into
the country; and in point of fact, the
french, germans and other neighbors,
export to switzerland whatever goods
they please including all kinds of fore
ign produce, without being charged
with any duty whatever. this very
remarkable state of things is partly as
cribed to the contending state of the
different cantons. some cantons are
agricultural, and others contain large
seats of manufacture. but the agri
cultural cantons would feel it very hard
i to be biiged to buy* manufactured
goods from a neighboring canton at a
dearer rate than they could buy them
abroad; the peasantry of vaud have
,no idea of emptying their pockets to
benefit the manufacturers of basle
and zurich. another cause, perhaps,
is the vast expense which would neces
sarily be incurred by attempting to
watch the widely extended boundary
beset by active contrabandists, it is
iat the same lime fair to state, that in
ail the deliberations of the swiss au
thorities for a number of years there
appears to have been a great unanimity
of feeling on the propriety of abstain
ing from restrictions on commerce. a
committee appointed by the diet in 1833,
i to consider the subject of foreign rela
tions, made the following report, one ol
the most extraordinary ever uttered by
the members of a legislative body.
"first—the swiss confederation
shall irrevocably adhere to its establish
ed system of free trade and manufac
ture. second—under no circumstancei
t and on no condition shall it form a part
of the (french custom bouse system,
of the prussian commercial league, oi
j the euston house line of any toreign
nation. third.—lt shall use every
effort for the establishment and exten
sion of the principles of free trade.—
fourth —it shall, as far as possible,
discuss and conventions with
the neighboring states, for the disposal
of agricultural and vineyard produce
and cattle, (or obtaining the free in
gress of corn, and for maintaining the
daily, reciprocal, economical, neigh
borly, and border traffic and market
transactions. fifth—wherever a free
trade ts not obtainable, it shall endea
vor to remove all prohibitions, to lewei
duties, and to secure the power oi
transit on (be most favorable terms.
sixth—when exceptionable favors car
be obtained, they shall be used for tb<
advancement of those measures whicl
fond to the accomplishment of the end)
proposed; «o however that exchange
iou.i dick. pcai»*"*«
whole no. 71.
be not thereby limited, nor pareomi
liberty interfered with. seventh—ln
the intemor of switzerland it aha)!
make every exertion to assist industry,
and to remove impediments to inter
course; taking care, however, that it
no not interfere with the personal con
cerns of merchants and manufac
turers.”
all restrictions on the importation of
articles from other countries being thus
removed, it might be supposed by soma
that the country would he deluged with
foreign manufactures, greatly to the
injurv of native capitalists and work
men. but this does not appear to be
the case. in several branches of man
ufacture the swiss excel; and the
opportunity of buying certain kinds of
foreign produce, at a particularly cheap
rate, enables the people to encourage
the growth of other manufactures in
tbeir own country. the peasant who
buys an english made knife for half
what he could a swiss one fer, has half
bis mosey remaining wsnrwith to pur
chase a nativemade ribbon; hence.
swiss manufactures of one kind or ano
ther are sure to be encouraged.—cham
bers' miscellany.
the cords that huxci tah'eli.
whatever inay have been his fears,
his hopes, his fancies, or his thoughts,
suddenly flashed along .the wires of the
electric telegraph, which were stretched
close beside him, the following words:
“a murder has just been committed at
salthill, and the suspected murderer
was seen to take a first class ticket for
london by the train which left slough
at 7h. 42m. p. m. he is in the garb of
a quaker, with a brown great-coat on,
which reaches nearly down to his feet.
he is in the compartment of the second
first-class carriages.” and yet, fast as
these words flew like lightning past
him, the information they contained,
with ,all its details, as well as every se
cret thought that had preceded them,
had already consecutively flown mil
lions ol times faster; indeed at the very
instant that, within the walls of the lit
tle cottage at slough, there had been
uttered that dreadful scream, it had
simultaneously reached the jndgment
seat of heaven! on arriving at the
paddington station, after mingling for
some moments with the crowd, he got
into an omnibus, and as it rumblsd
along taking out one passenger and put
ting in another, he probably felt that his
indentity was every iniuute becoming
confounded and confused by the ex
change of fellow passengers for stran
gers that was constantly taking place.
but all the time he was thinking, the
cad of the omnibus—a policeman in
disguise—knew that he held his victim
like a rat in a cage. without however
apparently taking the slightest notice
of him, he took one* sixpence, gave
change for a.shilling, handed out this
lady, stuffed in that one, until arriving
at the bank, the guilty man stooping as
he walked towards the carriage door,
descended the steps;—paid his fare;
crossed over to the duke of welling
ton’s statue, where pnusing a few min
utes anxiously to gaze around him, he
then proceeded to the jerusalem coffee
house, thence over london bridge to the
leopard coffee-house, in the borough,
and finally to a lodging-house in scott’s
yard, cannon-street. he probably
fancied that, by making so many turns
and doubles, he had not only effectually
puzzled all pursuit, but that his appear
ance at so many coffee-houses would
assist him, if necessary, in proving an
alibi but whatever may have been his
motives or his thoughts, he had scarcely
entered the lodging, when ths police
man—who, like a wolf, had followed
him every step of the way—opened his
door, and very calmly said to him—
the words no doubt were infinitely more
appalling to him than the scream that
had been haunting him—“hav’nt you
just come from slough?” the mono
syllable “no,” confusedly uttered in
reply, substantiated his guilt. the po
liceman made him his prisoner; he wa«
thrown into jail, tried, and found guilty
of wilful murder, and—hanged. a few
j months afterwards, we happened to be
i traveling by rail from paddington to
slough, in a carriage filled with people
all strangers to one another. like
english travelers, they were all mute.
for nearly fifteen minutes no one had
uttered a single word, until a short
bodied, short-necked, short-noaed, ex
ceedingiy respectable looking man in
the corner, fixing bis eyes on the appa
rently fleeting posts and rails of the
electric telegraph, significantly nodded
to us as he muttered aloud: “them’s
the cords that hung john tawell.”—
stokers and pokers by sir francis
head.
remarkable case.— the boston
traveller mji that a mao, who hat for
the last forty years been coo fined as a
raving maniac in the poor house at
newton, has been suddenly restored to
his reason. he has been regarded as
incurable, and for a great part of the
time during his confinement ne has been
soviolent as to render it necessary to
chain him. he appears like one awak
ening from a long sleep, and remem
bering distinctly events which occured
previous to the loss of reason, bat noth
ing that has transpired during the long
years of bis confinement.
cost oe fighting. —in s apecch delivered
io the house of kepreaetnattvea on the appro
pristion bill, mr. greeley stated that dating
the sixty years of our nations! tx.au n:e, ihr
government ha* expended fur warlike purposes
the sura of *<*s,93o,mk>:
her. charles avery, of aueghaay eh..
has given a lot of ground worth $9ooo, located
in aa eligible portion of tbst citt, and is about
to sreet uj*ve it s building to be worth 10
000, tor the use of the rotated wesleyan
methodists as a church, a college, and a primary school.
the fifteenth annual meeting of the american anti-slavery society will be held n the taber node. rmtdiny, new york. oo
tnrediy the ath day of may »e*t.
the anniversary at the tabernacle repre-
sent* to the country at large tbe progress, the:
efficiency, and even the existeoer, of tbe anti-j 1
slavery cause. it is to vaal numbers of peo-'
pie the only mga ot the continued zeal and i,
spirit of the abolitionists, whom* local meet-1
mgs they never b«»a» of. 11
the busioem meetings of the society'
have always brought together in counsel t.
larger number of abolitionists frum various'
parts of the northern states than is ever con- j
vened on any other occasion. the general i
,merest* ot the cause command, at that time,!
a consideration which at no other can be given
them.
it has n*ver, since the formation of the i
society, been more apparent than at this mo
.r.ent, that the anti-slavery cause is left
where it ever baa been, in tbe hands of the
members of the american society. there is
a* yet no reason to suppose that slavery will
ever be abolished except through its efforts.
the general importance of the annual
meeting, and the aspect of the cause at this
moment, which fives us every thing to hope
for if we persevere,—everything to fear if
we falter—appeal alike loudly to abolitionists,
all over the land, to make the ensuing annual
meeting of tbe american anti-slavery socie
ty one that shall do more even than any pre
vious one has done to drive the south to
despvr in defence of its felonious system of
society, and the north to a more determined
altitude than any portion of it has evei yet
ventured to assume in defence of its own
rights, and the assertion of the rights of tbe
•‘lave.
wm. lloyd garrison. prest.
wendell phillips, sea/'s
s 11. gay. j
senator walker instructed to resign.
the legislature of wisconsin have spoken
heir opinion of senator walker. we no
ticed some days since the passage of the res
olution* through tbe assembly, condemning
what they called his dough-faced recreancy to
the wilt of bis constituents, and instructing
him to resign forthwith. in the house, the
resolutions were adopted with compantively
little opposition. we give the resolutions as
adopted by the house, together with the
vote.
resolved, j 1 v the senate and the assembly
of the stato of wisconsin, that the course of
hon. i. p. walker, one of the senators of
this state, in tbe congress of the united
states, in presenting and voting for an amend
ment to the general appropriation bill provid
ing for a government in california and new
mexico west of the rio grande, which did nut
contain a provision torever prohibiting the in
troduction of slavery or involuntary servitude
■n'oaid territories, has violated his oft-repeat
ed as well as his solemn written pledges given
before hia» election, on that subject, and out
raged the feelings, and misrepresented those
who elected him to that station, and has openly
violated the instructions contained in the renol
ulto is passed bv this body on tho subject or
slavery, at its present session: therefore,
resolved, that mr. walker is hereby in
structed immediately to resign his seat in the
united states senate
resolved, that hon. henry dodge, our
other senator, in voting against the proposi
tion of mr. walker, a 3 he did on the 20th of
february last, has represented the views and
wishes of his constituents on that subject, for
which we express to him our most cordial ap
proval of his course.
resolved, that the governor is requested
to forward a copy of the foregoing resolutions
to the president of tho senate and to each oi
our senators and representatives.
the ayes and noes having been called on
the adoption of the foregoing resolution, the
vote stood as follows: ayes 49, nays 9.
interraeddiers.
state rights and non-interference, has been
the song of the slave party ever since the
first determined word against slavery was
spoken in the northern states. if we dared
discuss their institution and crimes, no matter
how directly nr intimately they affected the
freedom, morality, general security, and pros
perity of the nation, the wellftre and rights
of the north, or the good of the race, wej
were delicately told to “go home and mindi
our own business that we were impertinent
intermeddlers with other men’s concerns, and
deserved, and if we dared to go south should
receive s “halter’’and “felon's death,” for
our reward. we have long known that
southern consistency was a very rare article
that our soul hem masters think it quite enough j
lor them to affirm their principles without
practicing tltem that they expect their ser-i
iles to obey their commands without copying
their example, and hence we are in no way
surprised by the following resolutions unani-!
raouslv adopted by the whigs of shelby j
county, tennessee, on the 24 uh., and pub
lished in the republican banner and nash
ville whig. northern whigs may see in
them a picture of tho southern face of the;
party with which they are in league, ana if
alter reading they do not abhor their union j
with southern tyrants, we shall no longer
.loubt their fitness ior it.
whereas, it appears from the public ex
pression ol opinion that the citizens of the
state ol kentucky contemplate to amend
their constitution so as to authorize the gra- j
dual emancipation of their slave population,
an event which we believe would bo produc
tive of the most pernicious consequences m
the adjoining slave holding state*, iu a two-
fold point of vit-w—first, by the temptation
that such an anticipated crisis would present i
to the slaveholder m their own state, to
hasten the remmal ol that description of pro
perty in masses prior to the period of the com- 1
mencement of emancipation, and thus mer-j
whelming the adroining states with a sudden
influx, seriously detrimental to the marketable 1
value of their own domestic slave* secondly,;
y the consummation of such scheme, ten
oessee is destined to become a border slate, j
and will neceeaaril v become exposed to tlw i
very provoking evils that are urged by the
eitixens of kentucky for the adoption of this
novel measure of self protection to wit: tho
kidnapping invasions they have suffered on
their slave population from the citizens of th»
contiguous free state. we are, therefore,!
of the opinion that the common welfare of
our state should prompt its citizens lu *peak
out in lime, in such language of remonstrance
as may tend to arrest so dangerous a n volu-1
tion in the domestic pohey of a sitter slave 1
•tale; and also lu adopt*such other measure*
of seif-defence, as may successfully counter-!
vail the miwrhic! we appreheod from such a
l/be it further resolved, —that the dele
gates from this country to the sommerville
f onvention, sre hereby instructed to preaeoi
the suiect for discussion u» said convention,
with the view of making h the imperative
juiv for the candidatee who may be nomina-
siaie ropreosntxiivss, to discus* be
fore the people tho impolicy o« this cootem
platod scheme* emnoapntoc to ky., and
abo to advocate hi a measure of —it defence,
the snnnmant he 4k legist or* of a* state,
the mom rifommfeoon* on the iotroduc
tsm ef seeism into oar state, for psrpuoca of
traffic. i
resolved, thffi tar are of opium that
nothing short of making this traffic felony by
law, will abolish the evil. pm. prrrmmn
education la keataeky.
in hr message to the legislature of thta
common wealth ia 1837, governor clark do-
hared that une-tbtrd of the adult population
of the state were unable to write their names
an examination of marriage certificates signed
amce that period does not disprove what gov.
declared. f«*r the last ten years, onr
wnseet and beat men have been trying to intro
duce a system of common vchoola ia onr
f ommoowealth, with what aneceaa tbe recent
report of the rev. dr. breckcnridge those,
r.very kentuckian nut admit that a very
large portion of our follow-citizen* are un
able to write their names or read their bibles,
and there ia aot the slightest expectation that
a better condition of things ia likely tn exist
so long at that foe to education, slavery, is
permitted to remain in the stale. notwith
standing the many efforts that tb« friends ot
education in the various slave sta>es have
made to get common schools well established,
there is not a slave slate in the union in
which there is any soefa school system in op
eration it is not because atuetu of slave
states do not make proper efforts, but it ia
owing to the fact, that where slavery is tol
erated, the population trill be tot) sparse for
common schools.
tbe advocates of slavery hate statistic*,
and they do not hate them without a cause.
statistics prove that the slave states are in a
deplorable oondititioe of ignorance. tbe
rich and those who are well to do in the world
are educated, but the masses of the people art
unprovided with educational facilities, and,
despite w hat the journal calls our common
school system, the stump and newspaper”
they grow up utterfy ignorant of the use of
the pen and the type. in 1840, in the fifteen
slave states and territories, there were 202,-
085 scholars in the primary schools, while in
the same class of schools in the free states
1.626,028, or more then eight times as many.
the scholars in the single state of ohio out
numbered the scholars in all the slave states!
in the slave states one in every ten of the
white population arc unable to read or writ*,
while in the free states the proportion is one
to every hundred and fifty. there is scarcely
a child horn of american parents in the free
states that is permitted to grow up without
some schooling, while in the slave states the
population is almost exclusively native in its
origin, and the ignorance is of domestic origin
too. all the penitentiaries m the country
show that the «la*s which can neither read or
write furnish a very large proportion of their
criminals.— louisville journal.
the north star.
rochester, may 4, 1849
letter from the editor.
new york, 25th april, 1849.
dear readers —this has been a lively
week among the colored citizen# of new
york. subjects connected with our interests
have claimed a large 3hare of their attention.
at the close of the meeting on friday even
ing, held m the shiloh presbyterian church,
corner of prince and marion streets, another
meet me was announced for monday evening!
ot the next week, for the special purpose of
exposing the mischievous movements of a
mr. miller, (son of the rev. dr. miller of
princeton, new-jersey,) who it seems is now
in england, misrepresent
feelings of the colored pe*. r countrv,
and doing hto utmost to organise societies in
that country auxiliary to the american colo
nization society and through this means to
raise funds with which to carry on the ma
chinery of this old abuser of the colored peo
ple.
it was enough'that the meeting was called
to expose this two faced hypocrite and perse
cutor of the colored man, to rally a large
audience. there were in attendance not fewer
than twelve hundred persons, made up of the
most respectable and intelligent part of the
colored people of this city. it did ray heart
good to look out upon that audience. i hailed
the sight as ample evidence that our people,
though crushed beneath the heel of american
tyranny, are yet alive and willing to assert
their rights, and denounce the cunning con
trivances by which their guilty oppressors
se*k to prolong their oppressive rule, and to
put far away the day of our deliverance as a;
people.
the meeting was organixed by calling the
rev. j. w. c. pennington to the chair, and j
appointing several vice-presidents and se-j
cretaries. a series of spirited resolutions
were reported by a committee appointed for
that purpose; and after a very animated dis
cussion of them, which continued ur.tl eleven
o’clock, they were unanimously adopted. the
speakers on this occasion were, messrs.
.1, w c. pennington, george t. downing,
charles b. ray, charles reason, charles
lenox remond, tunis g. campbell, and
f redcrick douglass. with such an'array of
&i*eakers. a meeting for any purpose could
neither be dull nor uninteresting; but met to
expose end denounce tho detestable and ne
farious designs of the american colonization
society, and especially its present efforts to
seduce the british public into its recognition
and support —the theme was such ss to ex
cite al! m;nds, warm all hearts, and make all
tongues eloquent. remond poured forth a
pertect torrent of indignant eloquence, fairly
blistering and stinging the very life out of
colonization. his speech was listened to
with the profoundest interest—every word
telling with thrilling effect upon the multitude
before him. i have seldom beard him when
his soul was more thoroughly aroused and his
eloquence was more powerful. the whole
assembly attested their delight bv frequent ex
pression of applause.
the interest excited this evening suggested
the propriety of holding another on tuesday
evening, the question being put, resulted to
an unanimous vote in favor of bolding another
meeting the next evening. the fire was
kir.dfod *)nd the people were alive according
ly another and larger meeting was beld on
the tuesday evening full of internet to the
la t, ai d continuing till near the “noon of
night. i have seldom seen anything surpass
mg those meetings, and aute 1 am that coloo
ixat ion never got a severer blow from tbe
colored people than on these occasions. not
coloii.xationist dared open his mouth in favor
of the scheme. there were several preseat,
but they deemed it wise to suffer in alienee.
it is well they did so. while they would
have been in po bodily danger, they would
have been terribly handled; nevertheless,
they ware compelled to sit and hear that
malignant old persecutor tussive a stinging
«*»tigatioo, from an early* hour until mid-
night, nnd not a deg ammtg dated to
wag his tongue in dafimee or extenuation. j
among those who mode the moot effective j
cpoaehco un the lam evening were,mr. charles
l. reason, dr, j. mecsbi smith, c bartee
loaox remond, thomas van resaeunev,
and henry bibb. mr. reaaaa confined him
self to a presentation of conncuag
the colonisation society of gross fraud upon
the public of this and otbor countries— of
concealing tbe real state of fact* in tho esse
and coodtuon ot liberia, showing their us
candid tepmsmtiliom respecting the influence
of liberia upou the slave trade, and proving
that so far from preventing the slave trade,
the liberians were actually engaged in this
infernal traffic and that amid all the flourish
about the pro* peri.y of the colony, the cofea
ista were driven to this hellish business to
obtain the means of living. he exposed the
vile and murderous treachery of that counts!-
pan of judas, president roberts! wbe
for the sake of getting the gold of a partner
in crime, became an actor behind the scene in
a moat foul and horrid murder. the speech
of mr. reason will be published seat week,
and will speak for itself.
mr. bibb, was not behind any of tbe
speakers. his part was well performed.
he gare] tbe “old abomination” a shrewd
riddling with the lash of ridicule, and suag
an anti-colonization song which greatly
pleased tbe audience. mr. remood wished
to skulk this evening, but the audience “would
stand no such nonsense," and he was com
pelled to give them another t blast of hu
bugle. he has only to open hia mouth, and
a cataract of eloquence is the result. h#
spoke grandly and to the point—carrying his
audience, or rather his audience carrying him
with them.
mr. \an reosellaer, spoke short, but said
much. his rough, “raru’s horn,' 1 offhand
manner is not agreeable to many, but all must
confess that there is power and spirit in the
man. he leaps right into the midst of tbe
enemy and wields his dangerous weapon in
all directions; sometimes mistaking friends
for foes, his war club makes sad havoc
among his own roldiera. he may be dis
ciplined, but must not be dismissed from the
ranks of freedom’s army in this country.
i frederick douglass followed van rensellaer.
dr. mccune smith spoke last, and made one
of the neatest speeches to which i ever
listened. his speech was mainly devoted to
the history and noble conduct of aexander
cruranaell now in england, awarding to that
gentleman a generous tribute of respect for
his boldness and the prompt manner in which
he had met our common enemy in that land,
as well as tor his manly conduct towards, that
piince df (offenders, bishop underdonk.
i am not sure that i have not got the cart
before the horse in giving you this account,
w ithout first stating fully the immediate cause
for holding these meetings. but i write in
haste and you must excuse had composition.
the facts are briefly these.
soon after president roberts visited eng
land, and made a favorable impression, there
went from this country an agent of the col
onization society. this agent has represent
ed to the british public that the colored
people in this country are generally turning
their attention to liberia aa their future home
that immense number* wish to go and would
immediately emigrate if they could; that the
want of funds is their only hindrance. this
agent has been very active, and has made a
j decided impression, having almost succeeded
in establishing a british colonization society,
to co-operate w ith the american and would
have done so but for the timely interference of
alexander crummell, now in england, and to
whom the colored citizens of new york are
indebted fot this note of warning. i rejoice
that so able and faithful a representative of
the colored people of the united states hap
pened to be in england at that time. the
meetings just held will prove a very accepta
ble reinforcement to him, and 1 have no doubt
he will use those proceedings successfully
against our common foe.
there is no end to the impudent and in
sulting schemes of the american colonization
society. that society has been again and
again assured by the respectable and intelli
gent part of the colored jieople that they
neither wished nor wanted its services. if
they desite to go to liberia or any where else f
they would go independently and at their
own expense. but ihese assurances in the
shape of resolutions and addresses, go for
nothing; running before they are sent, they are
everlastingly begging money in our name,
and appropiating the same to their own pur
poses,—against our moat earnest remonstran
ces. exposed in england a few years ago,
at the instance of william lloyd garrison,
by wilberforcc, clarkson, and o’connell,
the graves of thesa noble men are scarcely
green, when this society sends its agents into
that country on a second mission of fraud
and deception. that it will be worsted in the
ptesent conflict 1 have no doubt. british
philanthropists, are quite suspicious, and
justly so of any propositions emanating from i
w hite persons, aiming to affect iu any way
the condition of the colored people of this*
country. i have little fear that they will!
unite with our old enemy against ns in this i
trust their last effort to injure os.— r. d.
the new york colored oiphu asylum.
i have just spent two hour* at ibis institu
tion. the building is situated on fifth avenue
between forty-thinland forty-fourth streets
and so deeply am 1 interested and impressed
by what i saw and beard there, that i foal
prompted to say a word about it at once. for
this visit i am indebted to dr. j. mccune
smith, the constant physician of the estab
lishment. wo arrived there just aa tbe
children were ruing fifrotn the long dinner
table, and were attracted to the room where
they were, by their vocal music. they had
finished their plain but substantial repast, and
were warbling a song of thanksgiving and
praise. “praise god from whom all blearing*
flow,” went upon the wings of a hundred and
forty orphan votets. we reached the room
in time to catch the dosing strain of tbie pre
cious old hymn, and to soe the children as
they stood ringing it, and were (who would
ootbe?) deeply affected by it. 1 had often
beard this hymn before, and seemed to taolme
iu depth and power, but never until this
moment had i been made to foe) tbe nnetioa
with which it is cupsbls of being song. the
groat god seemed alone to share their thanks
giving. cot riff from earthly parents, they
ware taught to look to thatr fafhnr hnavun
as the source of all the biaariogs they
mi tn tefy upon him iu usury time of muff.
at the ckue their hymn i kiuffif m
tihd ky sue of tho didmmuo k «hke a
t i iliilflrt- i luwpffki, nnd
addressed them shoot fifteen miuotoo, timing
to inpwi their youthful minds with a ssnat
of the high destiny which twaited them, the
i tspoosihihdhs which were aotm to devolve
upoe thenqp anil tho greet impeller* of
preparing to meet sod discharge worthily
their duties hid roapeuaibihues. for this i
usxued them agmiaot the vice* of lying and
indolence,—exhorted them to truthfulness
and industry showing that while tho former
loads to shame sod rum, the latter loads to
peace, plenty, aad happiness. i woo listooed
to with strict attention, and at the does. dr.
smith took op the theme, aad after firing
them a little history of myself, the children
song us several songs upon the subject, which j
we had just been considering.
every movement of the children was mark- j
ad by the utmost ease and order, highly credi-:
table to thoon having charge of the institution, j
after dinner they went to their plays, and
presented a lively scene as they seats per od m
various directions, with merry songs and
sprightly dance. from this scene the dr.
gave me a hasty glance at the different apart
ments of the building. the school, and sleep
ing apartments were admirably sdapted to pro
mote health, and secure the comfort of the iu-,
mates. tbe whole building, though plain;
and unpretending, is the very picture of neat
ness and comfort.' i felt like uniting in tho holy
hymn, “praise god," as i beheld those dear
children, snatched flora damp and gloomy cel
lars, deserted and desolate garrets, from the
abodes of rice and crime, from want and
wretchedness, from disease and death, to this
delightful abode of virtue aud intelligence,
where their tender hearts are moulded and
impteseed with the love of virtue, and their
minds brought under the broad light of
education, and their hands are early trained
to industry, order and frugality.
here, i found religion in its appropriate
sphere, taking care of the fatherless, and
lightening tbe burdens of the loody widow.
thank god that new york—given up to
money-making as she is, and sodom-like in
her varied forms of wickedness as she is, pre
sents at the same time such examples of
(’hristian charity as tbe colored orphan asy
lum.
i would gladly say more of this institution,
but time and space will not permit at this wri
ting. 1 wil: recur to it at another time.—f.d.
p. s. the names of tbe officers of the in
stitution are as follows,—
officers.
anicaltha miller, first directress, 29,
clinton place.
sarah c. hawkhcrst, second directress,
83, henry street.
anna h. shotwcll, secretary, 105, third
avenue.
mary murray, treasurer, foarteenth-«t.,
near third avenue.
managers.
alible tun arcularius, elisabeth kelly,
elizabeth bowne, anne mott,
ruth beatty, jane r. madauchlin,
martha c.blig*, jane lawrence,
francis chrystie, sarah muosell,
elizabeth b. collins, margaret roosevelt,
eincline cornell, any sutton,
mary day, jane r. thurston,
mary few, f. underhill,
mary j. urhon, m. a) to lactic varick,
chailotte gardener, mary vvmblcr,
sarah hall, elisabeth wigharn,
ann jay.
advisers to the board.
robert c. cornell, joshua s. underhill,
robert i. murray, j albert chrystie,
win kelley, joseph b. collins,
mahlon day, anthony p. hausy.
new york colored school, no. 2.
w hile here, i have done myself the pleasure
of visiting this somewhat noted school. it is
under the supetiutendance of mr. charles l.
reason, one of the most accomplished and
gentlemanly teachers in this country, of any
color. he has recently been called to a pro
fessorship, in the new free college, now in
progress in central new york; and will doubt
less do honor to hiinselfand the colored people
of this country generally, by his services in
that capacity. the school now under consid
eration, is the largest, i believe, in this city.
the female department is under the care cf
mrs. j.me forten, a lady of large attainments
and i should think well qualified for her sta
tion. the children were neat in their attire,
and orderly in their conduct. mr. reason
carried them through a few exercises in geo
graphy, astronomy, grammar, and arithme
tic. the questions were put in a familiar
way, without any routine formality, and were
answered in a manner that led me to believe
that they were not only taught to remember
the thoughts of others, but to think for them
teives. the examination was deeply grati
fying to me, although i found boys of twelve,
answering correctly questions in geography,
astronomy, arithmetic and grammar, which i
could not answer. i ant not the leas proud
and joyful, on this account. i rejoice that
such colored lads arc on th.-ir road to man
hood. they will grow up, i trust, and occu
py a h’gser position, than iliat to which tbe
presert uneducated fugitive has yet attained.
w hile looking out upon this multitude of
sable, yet bright faces, 1 felt a deep wish that
j- f calbuun and all hi* guilty companions
in the crime of roan-atcalmg and libelling my
humble race, could share with me the aoul
cheermg scene. a better or more impressive
condemnation of slavery; or a more forcible
and conclusive refutation of tbe miserable
calumnies against the colored people cannot
be foond, than is presented ia this school.
1 am glad mr. reason ia called to tbe booorm-
me station of professor, —but sorry that new
york city is about to lose the benefit of aucb
a gentleman and scholar.— r. d.
jcst the same.—when the celebrated en
gineer brunei, who aecomplrihed the desper
ate experiment of tunneling tbe thamesnver,
was brought before a committee of the british
parluaeot, he »a* asked if a speed of eighty
miles pet hour on a certain railroad would be
much more dangerous to the traveler upon it
than the speed of forty*
“it would be tost tbe same," said be.
“aad a speed of ninety*”
“just the seine."
“and a spaed of one hundred?"
“just the asms! for," mined be, “if the
cars should rua off the track at the rate of
forty miles per hour, the passengers would all
go to ruin, and at ooe hundred miles per hour
they could not eonvanieotly go any ran her.”
novtt, otcimon.—rrepowfoility or has
kandn.—a woman wan eon vietod of alealtof a
pines ofliaca, in randolph co., lad., aad the
jaatiee seotaaeed bar forehand.* jail fm tba on
to females dm.uk, fa*-, ac.
mt dtu sib:—tbs ■sinrignad boeeinlv


foo to a pahlie ami 4mtm arias, of *o
«mm hat warn as. at say aaeotry m
state of new york, at each ti«e ae ym **j
1* ia ■otter «f mu if w j tk v*
earisrsigaad whotbci ikeqeestwo kewnt*"®
m to man the onao rf either of ike per-
m a tko man, apoa ike letter, «r spirit**
tke coootitatioa ar the eoestiteuoaality of ike
pro oumj anrnm wkiek base keeaper
torund kjr the government, under ptofinaed
cooetitatiooal naetioo.
▼eiy lespectfully, yoor ob’t serm,
sam lr ward
syracuse, april 10,1840.
saw at r. wabo eaq.
mr dcaa sib —while i pwfc" 90
desire to debate anth yoo, tke dtfteaaee whine
mar exist between yourself sad me, respecting
the relation sustained by tke ceoatitotina o 1
tke united states, to ike system of american
slavery, ‘he direct, earnest, and at the sam
time respectful manoeref yoor challenge,leave
me ao alternative hot to ehearfelly accept it.
i will therefore awn yea m new york oo tke
teeth of may, at aoch place ae yee or yoor
ftieode may provide, and discern this question
any number of evenings yoo may pie***,
exceeding fire. of coarse, at the challenging
party, i shall expect you to assort, ia the man
ner of distinct propositions, tke various points
of difference between us.
very respectfully yours,
frederick douglass.
elevation.
another stepping stone to the colored a*
merlean's elevation is that of becoming me
chanics and farmers, and that, too, in the
same sense that the white man does; he gen
erally, knows hia business, whether his sign
toads boot and ahoe-maker, tailor, or black
smith. if you want hia services, he will prove
himself a competent workman. in making
j this suggestion we would not lose sight of tbe
many colored men, all over the country, now
excelling in tbe various departments of science
mechanics, and letters also. we are not
without examples in our ranks; the fault is
that they are too slowly imitated. the man who
has only ability to blow the bellows, should
not aspire to play the organ. any one ean
buy a pippin in the market-place, and tie it to
the bough of a tree, with a string, but the in-
i telligent will soon di-cover the difference be
tween that, and the production of the tree it
self. one blow of the chisel does not make
a statue. let us become perfect, in these
matters —do our work as we//, and as cheap
i as others, and no power can pievent our sue
cess; for self-interest is a predominant trait in
1 in the human heart, especially a yankee one,
and the color of our skins will soon fail to be
the objection, if customers can drive with us
the best bargain.
the elevation of a high standard of morali
ty is an indispensable requisite for our ad
vancement. we are living in a land, where, on
tbe side of tbe oppressor there is power; and
every dereliction on our part is trumpeted forth
i as a giant offence; it behoves us, therefore, to
be careful in our morals, that at least, we may
be conscious of being in the right. a wise
parent cannot uphold his child and make him
respected, unless he respects himself. it is
eertsinly a merit, in a people situated as we
are, amid the temptations and examples of a
corrupt society, if we are enabled to preserve
our character spotless. show me such a man
and i will show one worthy of the beet ap>
plause of his people and the approbation o'
i his god:
diogeuea, his lantern then will need no more—
an honest mao being found, tbe search is o'er.
no station that we may occupy, will itself,
create a character. we must ourselves be
honest, and not expect by any artificial mean*
to attain a proper position. a pigmy is a pig
my still, though he sat bestride the alps; a
giant ia a giant, though always in the valley.
in this march of mental and moral reform, no
one can well be spared—the old and tbe
young,—the men and women, each have an
influence which should he promptly contribu
ted, on the altar of a people's elevation. let
none suppose themselves too old to learn.
1 those who, in early life have not basked in
the sunshine of literary advantages, should
eagerly improve every oppoituoity now pre
sented, to expand their menu.! resources, re
membering that many of the most distinguished
'men in the world, have commenced new pur
suits, at an advanced age. cato was eighty
1 when he began to learn greek. plutarch at
!seventy, studied latin. benjamin franklin
did not pursue his philosophical studies, until
he was fifty. these few, from many other
facts, set aside the plea of ‘being too old to
learn.' whole volumes have been compiled
of instances of self-taught men, those who
i despite the most unfavorable circumstances
have persevered and signalised themselves as
rnonumen ts of unlettered sagacity.
but the young men should constitute them
selves the advance guard; upon them devolves
i a large share of responsibility. our fathers
are passing away, leaving us but the legacy oi
their prayers and fond aapirations for success;
i though they indeed must weep in remembrance
of the past; when denied even the tithe of our
present opportunities, their hearts are made
glad in the anticipations of our day of better
associations in penetrating the vista of tbe
coming future, they behold their sons prepar
ing themselves for stations of honor and re
spectability, competitors in various pursuits of
tbe more favored class, sad through that me
dium, like valiant pioneers effecting ao open
ing through which their brethren may safely
reach tbe goal of human prosperity, —this
view, to them ia indeed aa cheering as tbe
“glance of a sunbeam o’er a wmtry desert.”
let tbe young men never forget the memo
ry of their fathers,—those who, in the day of
small thiogs, have labored hard in the cause
of bnmaaity. if others foil to appreciate the
msrit of the colored man, let os cbensh the
deserted shrine; the names which others oeg-
i®*** •hoeki only be more sacredly our care.
let us keep them for tbe hoped-for day
ef fall emaaripatios, when ludaeiaed from
the long aigkt of ignorance that baa rested
osar os. ws may recall them to memory, i
mnollcnißf with gtatitsdo that the stars which
shone ia our horiaoe, have ushered in a moat
glorieeadaam.
yeung moo should ha snergetic and perse- i
veriag ie adding «e their stock of knowledge.
—evaa thmsslves of saxihary aid of eoevaa.
but bend their own mieda to the task. the
yoeag hod weld new lean to fly, bymasolj
looking at it* amber, hot, itself makes the
saempl. eipaah it* »u«g*» men> »wt
into the »of .**paee. th* highway of
kuowwgv i*iw fenced to.— th« tobynotb
of ill the ■'•ton'*’* ran he peaetrated.—
the mk °i pn*t:y can he invekod, and
the treasure* of history and biogiapby eiptor*
rd, tkua, ensbling vm.ng n*en to look to tb«f
tohitttfd mind- s« ?n s*ntm full of
the ototirr~t frcit
let lb* in pr h *»;l nt »:ie<rtlliw,'
otkp g«m»l i’v »f ihfii ***»ve» and eats”
lea id what they <*.«n fnm e’er* [rtwoj
veftt; rl is said. ui.it edward everett, the
(tie pf«id* n nt htfritwl llwmmty, in
prove* every opi**! tunny oj conversing
with thoee lie on *ume department of
tbeir trade or calling, and by this mean* daily
adde to that stock of knowledge which has
reodered his name so distinguished in the re
public of letters. many of the most imp* r
taut diacoverie* in aeienoe are to bo attributed
to this trait of observation; individuals taking
a not* of “men and things/’ which, though
apparently to many of small import, yet the
suggestion being pi everted in the memory, laid
the foundation of rainy a sublime study, pul
ing knowledge in the bead, and money in tbe
pocket.
44 ike time has come to 'run sad read*
with thoughtful eye aad brow,
cxtend your grasp to catch
things uastlsiiicd bet**;
plunge in tbe crowded mart
there read tbe looks of men,
give energy to thought,
by musing as yn move,
look outwardly aud /wm;
turn inwardly and think.
and truth and love shall brighter burn
o’er error’s wasting brink.”
a few days since, we had the pleasure ol
greeting a young colored teacher, who had
made himself familiar with several systems ol
stenographic and phonographic wiiting, math
ematics, &c. and, another, the same dai
was about to leave tbe country, and avail him
self of the honors of old oxford college.
theee are cheering facts, thu’ our oppressors,
may deem knowledge to be a dangerous ele
ment, in the brain of a coloied men, let tie
regard it as that power yet destined to win oui
lost rights. what though certain paths ol
industry are shut upon us, by american pro
slavery, thank god, enough are open to gti
bread by; let us then improve the advantage'
already at disposal.
when the catholic lawyers of england
were excluded from the courts, many became
i doubly eminent as counsellors and convey
ancers. if we ate excluded from the white
man’s counting house, let us show’ ourselver
wiser and better than many who pass their
i lives there.
it should be a prominent trait with young
men. to practise that deportment towards the
young ladies of their acquaintance, as to in
spire them with a congenial taste for intcllectu
ol and moral elevation; that i.istead of the
small talk so generally engaging the socia
circle, the hours may be sacred to improve
inent, by the introduction of interesting and
instructive topics, and thus giving the tone o:
conversation to those literary gatherings, that
they may truly deserve the appellation ol
“mental feasts.” let young men be devoted
to the welfare of each brother within their
sphere, point out his faults (though always in
the kindest manner,) encourage the merit that
be may manifest, and be proud in promoting
his success, not to inflate his vanity but to an
imate his soul to more persevering efforts.
it was a young man who first thought of
propelling a vessel by steam. harvey was
but eighteen, when he discovered the circula
tion of the blood. sir humphrey davy was
professor of chemistry at tweniy-three.
pope, at twenty-five nad translated the iliad.
milton’s heat poem was written at the ago ol
twenty-six. da witt clinton was a young
man when he projected the noble canal reach
ing from the erie to the hudson, conferring
such honor and profit on the empire state.
did colored young men but appreciate the
responsibility vested in them, there would in
deed be a general uprising all over the land
a chord would thus be struck, w hich would
vibrate through the nation, —proscription and
prejudice would soon hide their guilty heads,
and the genius of impartial liberty would then
indeed hail the united states, as her favored
home. —w. c. n.
president taylor ha* taken a pew in an
episcopalian church in washington city— ex.
for what purpose to make people be
lieve that he is a christian —or to show that
american christianity is in league with sla
very! in either case he wiil probably be
pretty successful. a time-serving church
does not scrutinise very keenly the character
of those m high-places, when they wish to be
admitted into its fold and the pro-slavery
character of tbe episcopalian church ha* al
ready been so clearly established, that this
additional proof scarcely majees the fact any
more apparent j. d.
a.h interesting slave cask. —at the
recent session of the cecil co. (md.) court,
eliza bogle and her eight children petitioned
for freedom. eliza had lived and acted as a
free woman for 21 years, without molestation
by her former owners. tbe <’-ecil whig
gives an interesting outline of the ease, from
which we learn that tbe court derided that a*
eliza was admitted at oae time to have been
a slave, and there was no record of her being
freed by any process known to the law, the
was a slave until tl»e time f her death, not
withstanding she was allowed to live away
from her master. various other minor point*
were raised by the counsel for the priaonei.
tbe jury retired at about 8 o'clock on tura
dar night, and remained out until about 11
o'clock ob friday morning, when they sent
down a petition to tbe court praying to be
released, as they could not possibly agree.
about this time an arrangement was entered
into by the counsel for the parties, to this
effect—that eltza sad her vouegeet child
should be declared free, sod that tbe others
enould be sold in the state, to be free at 36
years of age.
misaocai.—the following resolution *u
adopted by the senate of mwoun on the 3d
mat:
“be it resolved by the general aaeembh
of the stale of missouri, at follow*; that
the constitution of the united state* confer*
oo congress no power to legieisieoa the sub-
kof slavery within the territories of the
ted states, or to paaa aay lew* affecting
the rights of peraooaor their property, within
mtd tent ones.
“that the wiimot proviso, (so called,) by
cooftf** attempt* to prohibit the «x
»w*oe* of slavery in certain ten hone*, is to
act unhoused by the coeetituiios, and thete
for# void. if it were not ao, it would be an
fit«*ee*t despotism—the'people oi
tho territories have the seme rights of got*
rrammt over themselves within the ternto
nes, that the people of the sums have ovet
themselve wahia the sigfts.”
tbe t*ely tbe wofm bates.
**ll is not true that the world hale*
tbe modeot *i»d unobtrusive pietv »»rh fills
tbe heart wuh all human os.nrme#, and make*
mo fen tie 10 oihet* at it v'®* to hiinaeif,
is mi object of uiatr;-*! i> ti renorilwn
bat mankind hate tin* i*l*l of power, v irrn jt
is veiled wider it.* gai*> of piety; they lit,)
advertisers and quacks n piety. they do not
choose to ho insulted* tbev love to tear impu
donee and folly front lh<: slur. >»hieh should
be a sanctuary for dir- wretched and tl e
good.”
this little paragraph by sidney smith, has
been going the round of *lte [yea ot some
months past, wit heel rurt-j or comment. no
one seems to have seen anything objectionable
in it. lately, however, some of the relig.ous
papers hare been taking the rer. author to
pieces, for saying wrhat was not true, and
speaking in too high terms of the world’s d:e>
crimination. a recent number of the oberltn
evangelist gives the following critique h ]t
a sample of tbe rest.
44 the world,’ says our author, 4 does not
hate piety.* we recollect hating seen a de
ferent view from this, given on at least
equally good authority. an individual who
was himself the very tmoersonst on of piety,
amid to his followers— 4 if the world hate you,
ye know that it hated int- before it hated sou.’”
thia, however, is no reply to sydney
smith's assertion. jews was not pious, in
the sense in which that word is used above
his piety was of a sterner kind. it was not
unobtrusive —it was not a negation. piet>
of tho negative sort, which stands in nobody
way, offends nobody, is kind and gentle, and
never tella anyone that be :s doing wrong—
what is there in this that the world should
hate 1 nothing and it does not hate such
piety. i’her** is a kind of piety which the
world does hate. and it hates and persecutes
all who piaclise it. besides iho sham piety
of religious quacks, it hates also, the real
i piety of all who, like jesus, bear wiluc&s
against its wrongdoing. jesus was a re
former. no one ever uttered more radical
sentiments than he rtid. no one ever de
j nouneed in stiongi r terms all hand and hy
pocrisy, or held up to detestation, in atroiger
colors, the world’s vmes. and for this he
was hated, snd persecuted, and killed. it he
lived in charleston in the present day, in
-1 atead of living in jerusalem eighteen hundred
years ago—what would happen *he would
denounce the hypocrisy of the religion which
j makes long prayers and long faces, and
i throws the mantle of its protection over the
man who neglects to do justly. he would
wither with his scorching rebukes the scribes
and pharisees of the present day. he would
tell the guilty slaveholder of his vices and his
wrong-doing. he would preach the doctrino
of human brotherhood, and ra'se hia voice on
behalf of the oppressed. and tor doing thia,
the long faced hypocrites of charleston would
call him an infidel hold him up before the
public, as limit jewish prototypes did, as a
man to he shunned and tbe brutish multi
tude of man-stealers would chase him from
their city, if they dul not tar-and-feaiher or
assassinate him.— j. it.
southern threats, ac.
calhoun's addiess has called up a few res
ponses from the more patriotic and alavety-lov
*.ig of the southerners. but it is, and haa
been from the first a very uphill buminess with
*t. that atilt-born document is now on tho
verge of being consigned to the “dull cold"
grave of merited oblivion. the following
doxology to its honor was recently sung by a
small congregation of its friends, sponsors,
and god-fathers assembled in georgetown,
s. c.— ‘all sound and fury signifying—noth
ing read it; but it will acaicely “repay a
perusal.”—j.d.
1. that we w ill heartily unite with our fel
low citizens ihrougouht the state in conceiting
measures ufih our c’o states of the south,
for the maintenance of our rights.
2. that however we may deprecate section
al discriminations, we are now forced to adopt
them. not we, hm those who assail us are
responsible for it.
3. that however ardently we may desire to
perpetuate a confederacy formed with mriot
limitation for the common advantage of ail the
patties tfl it, we prize far higher our origi
nal rights of sovereignty and our domestic u
stitutions.
4. that the adoption by the federal govern-
rnent of the measure in n lert nco to the terntr
ries called the wiimot rroviao, would absolve
us from our federal obligations ami compel u*
and our c’o slates to resort to such means of
defence as the great law of self peracvaiton
mav require.
t hat we hail as a good augury the man*
testations of the patriotic and conservative
sprit w hich pervades our sister states of vir
2inia, maryland, kentucky, north carolina,
georgia, florida and aiabitr.a ou the subject
of southern, wrongs and will ir.nat readi y yield
to them, and co-operate with them, n any effi
cient action for the redress of <ur common
grevances.
j hat our thanks and applause arc due and
are hereby cordially tendered to the delegates,
signets ot the address, for their fidelity to tbe
constitution and to their country.”— allan*
atlas. 7
wonderful escape or a slave —the
following remarkable and thrilling account of
an escape ftom slavery, for the literal truth of
w hich the wiiter vouches, we gather from the
burlington (vt.) courier,of tbe 15th mat.
a few weeks ago, a slave in a southern
city managed to open a correspondent with a
gentleman iu a northern city, wuh a view of
•-dieting an escape from bondage. having
arranged the preliininatiea. he paid somebody
•o box him up. and mark him, “thia aide op
with care,” and send him by public convey
ance consigned to his friend at the north. on
hoard of a steamboat, he was amd*-ntly turned
head downward*, and almost died wuh the
rush of blood to ihe head. in the course of
his passage however, he was turned right aide
up again, and after 26 hours confinement, ar
rived safe at his dt-stmation. on rerieving
tbe box, tlie gentleman had doub:s whether
he shook! find a oorj.ae or a living man. he
•apped lightly on the box, with the question,
all right.” and was delighted to hear the
response, “all right, air.” tbe poor fellow
was immediately liberated from hia place of
living buna), and tent to a wealthy abolition
ist in a city m new england where he now
i*. when did spartan intrepidity show
greater firmness and fortitude, under bodily
•offering, than did this poor slave, when an
mated by the mspinng hope of freedom? we
ate glad to have assurance that tbit story ia i o
flight of fancy, but is absolutely true tl
fugitive, upon wbr-ee track tbs two-leggrd
blood-hounds are coursing, wilt never go hick
*o slavery, if tbe whole south should come
alter him.
tut paiaiouit or liasau —lt will be re
merebercd that when president robert* wst in
r-ngiand, a promise was made to him tbst a
•esael should be placed at hia disposal for the
•uppremiuß of the sieve trade on the roast of
#ur engliah paper* w* hod the
follow** paragraph:
the lurda of the admiralty have otdeied
ihe larb f a small vessel lying in chatham to
be fitted op as a yacht, for the use of the african republic of liberia.
glifonha.-morr ■■fnvoroble awm»u
l (»e ne" orleans picavone of th- 10th mat.
r)t following fn«n l correspondent
jure the explanation given by this writer, oj*
the gfowm? statement* received from the sac-
d.cken* satirised the elen of the
!v«l •peculaiou in martin choztlewit.
here is a fart far mire lugubrious than hi*
rici >n m en destitute of every principle of
morahty, anxious only for gain, at whatever
\.<n»e to ihe welfare of others, liate orig
maif-.i ihos- v.nvment*. they may he found.
e,i on fi't no doubt, but like other fictions, the
f a rt *s so c >h*vd and exaggerate a* to boo all
s uiiginauqiuraewriitica, and becomes tal*e
r.-wki. tin* summer. it is to be feared, will
insny .3 »3d u]e of the hardship and suf
m* qndured by the gold digger* —i p.
san fkascisco, feb. 18, isis#,
sjppowng a few line* from these digg ng*
rrur jyruve interev.mg to you, if not io the
imlici 1 ava l thyself of the opportunity of
th 2 departure lor m*zatl*n of the sch**nner
a allow, one of thi (ustem sailing vessels in
lie pacific, to s-rw you ih s. *ith a short »yn
.j'.'-is of noti.iai y r.octdiides. ss they are.
fo oun nc icr therefore i will inform von
tint l arrived here onboard th'* ffhio dag
»hip yesterday, twenty-eight :u tea from san
bias.
corn. jones left about *«n day?* ago up the
bay.’on boir.l the sloop*of*war (nr i believe
no* store ship) southampton, on »u explor-,
ing expedition, to ace ho*' tar it was praeti i
cable urge sbi,* nnv./ale up the hay j
witfi safety. thi* «s a very important matter
to asc rtain, as the an-h«<ngc ot verba burma
:s bv no m*ans an agreeable on*, and the site;
tor the grand e.nf«»rm for the pacific, oneot j
ihe worst, with a scarcity of water, wood, i
verything el*» (s.v\e fog an north-*enters)
a rxn contribute to tiie happiness of man.
the accounts from th goiu region »r? both
fivorable and unfav.iiable. the whole re- j
gi«»n has been sine november about two feet
tinder snow, iho real “hondo has not
c msequently t»een found, though it is »x
--.fetedto he stiimb'ed upon every moment
i'he supplie* of everything arc abundant; in
deed it does not requify mucli to supply tin*
sms of u»,oih» or lo.ibx) men. the most ihnt
•in now tie concentrated in the v«||ey of the
si ram ;tito. a considerable quantity «*f
las b *en fount in the. ravines of the s.erra
nevada.. it has been poked up. and no*
itiat the people have to dig for it, they la g n
to tack out. there is a greal deal of romance j
ail you heir ftoin c liifornn. and to explain
:!k whole story:
the v tilev* of the s.tcrammto ins f»cen i
u’.n.'l by about i vent .-eight individuals, j
who have run out the i mils upon i naginarv
lines bvs?d u [hi i false ranis obtained from i
iv. miclf-liorena since tin* war ended.— i
l nese f inds cannot be w .rlh anything with
out p ipu'ation. and the bubble of the gold re- i
g.o i ii.ta bjen got up more to attract allcntion j
rue! di.nv emigrants on this side of the rocky
mnn iuins than for any other purpose. there
nave l*ec i many deserteis from the army and j
naw, who, led away with the prospect of
making a fortune, have found “theelephant,”
and have: written in wishing to compound mat
;us nod mini *o duty.—this has been te
ased them, and the result has been that not
than a dozen have been hung up between
heaven and earth for robberies and nssasina
tinus. —thus we lave the dorado of califor
nia. or a picture of it.
g o. lane passed through this city a shor
time ago, on ins way to oregon. ’i lie mam
iek ahdel fra3 just anchored, eight dais from
columbia river. she reports that the gov
ernor had not arrived, and that all was quid
in hie couutiy.
the gold diggings as they are called by
jack, are prettv much like the game “heads i
win, nils you lose.” if a man finds an ounce
of goh, hunger obliges hint to aive it for a
morsel to eat, so, as on** told me the other day,
there is no gaining anything.
there is nothing like a civil government i
here nor do i believe there is a man of sal*
enongli in him in ali c iliforuia to form a code i
of la vs. everybody do. s es lie pleases. and
gen. smith will have a pretty time of it to'
put things to rights now. by ibis time cnli-
f. rnia ought u> he a territoiy, ai d a civil
governor appointed.—.vtxc orhans pit.
they see the difference.
tiie gazette, publislied in lieeliug, a.
an unusually free-thinking paper for tire lali-
tude, has an article on education, in which it j
compares the advantages enjoyed i*v southern
with those of northern youths. the editor,
however, ax ho conles-tes in article, is by
birth a northerner. speaking of a company
ui young men on their w.iv to california, wiiu
had paid wheeling a passing visit, be says
“they lake with them all the elements of
success energy, peiseverance, sobriety, good
p actic it common sense, nn thmotion ncifiiirtd
i.i th* <>loi iovs frrt s< hoofs of new england
iiisiitufious conferring largei benefits and rich
er blessings upon sucii as these young gentle
men, than all the gold ol california run id pur
chase. this was evident enough from their
g* neial intelligence,evident good habits, man
ly hearing, noticed generally by our citizens
r:s they passed about the city and made brief
acquaintance v. n h all who wished to converse
wilh them, and their gaud education lullv de
monstrated lo us by llit 1 *el that a large |*i
portion of ihe company in the course of the
morning, while their boat was king at the
w hatf, came into our office and wrote down
ihe addresses of fiiends to whom they dcsiieil
ns io send copies of this paper; run/ one
as xontt n in a rapid bold, perfectly legible,
busnv.is hand. no making of “marks among
the ho\s from ihe land of free schools.
\nd yet above forty of the fiiiy-two are
mechanics.
tins noble system is but just
established line; and hau but jusl to
i iffuxe ifirougfi tfie community, its cheerful,
log-dispelling hglit; and here are some sup* r
nnuafed beings born and bred in daikness,
upon whose weak, mental vision iie beams
fdl like a blaz •ot hre, who are striving to
overthrow the system that ail others may he
compelled to grope on ibiough file, in the
darkness tn which tbtv theinsehcs delight to
n* giovel'
i‘in.r, purblind, old mol«*s, toiling in your
suhi n rranean precincts, with feeble power
and te -bler instu cis, to undermine and over
throw th temple of the sun
l)o you duller your*, be- that you are suffi.
c ent lo your undertaking 1 let not *uch de
.sum iudiu-e vrnt to oveitafk vonr puny |k»w
ci« y**u cannot succeed and if you could,
\ou uoild but succeed in crushing and bury
i i vo'a selves and \nur progeny under the
lu.nsof ihe fabric you would prostrate.*'
thelcg 13uok or lire. —the following is
extracted from the journal ».f j’homas parker,
ui.o was an active engiiah naval officer, and
who died in tins country:
first jart m the voyage (through life).—
pleasant, with fine breeze*and fain winds; all
-ail s t; s. oke many m war t of provis
ion* supplied them freclv.
midtle j,tusa ß e.—' weather variable, short
of provision*. s;k»k f s *vreal of the afv»ve ves-
supplies bad; tnshls to refit; made
sig ial* of distress; they up hsl.n and bore a
way.
lat'r part. —boisterous, wub contrarv
winds: current of adversity selling t 0 i eward
towards the *nd of t c passage* it cleared up!
w;ih the quadram of poverty, hxd an observa
tion: rorrecied and m»do up mv reckoning, &r:d
itfir a pa*sageof fifty veare, came u» .nmor
ihiv road, with the calm surface of the occfj
»r eternity in view.
a meltikotim*. —the n. h. mirror*»-
i.mat tain the dressc* of those wfan alter. ded
toe great whvg inspiration bill *t washing
ton, suffered to the amount of $29,000, trom
ns drupmngs of the spunuu* tpermscstt esu-
oirsn.
communications.
heetisf is ifetrysrk.
at a urge meeting of the ettneoa of new
york, held at shiloh presbyterian church, oo
friday evemog april 20th, 1849; rev. james
n. gloucester wis called to tbe chair, sod
james mecune smith appointed secretary.
the chairman introduced lo tbe meeting
frederick dougiam. esq., who addressed the
audience in a speech distinguished by unusual
force and beautv. having mentioned the dif
ficulty he fell m addressing a mixed audience
of hite and colored petsooa, be enforced tbe
necessity of constant anu-elavery effort, oo
the ground* that truth* simple in themselves
require the most constant and frequent an
nouncement in order that they excite right ae.
non in the heart of mankind. then starting
from the doctrine that a nation's great men are
the indices of that nation's moral standing, be
|h»urtrayed the american coo science from the
manifestations of character, on the part of
calhoun, clay, and taylor. mr. clay's last
1 letter he pronounced eloquent, hot full of io
consistencies—pious, but blasphemous full
of beautiful sentiments, but diabolical princi
ple*—oveiflow ing with love of humanity, but
full of deep hatred against the negro. he
i grew so caustic in his analysis of general j
taj lor, that a few of the weaker sort dtssol-1
i vtd out and left tbe meeting; a fine burst of
eloquence brought down prolonged cheers
from the immense assemblage.
at the conclusion of his remarks, charles}
lenox rcmond, esq., was loudly called for, i
and came forward %nd made a happy appeal in j
j behalf of the north star; coneluding by offer-
mg a resolution in favor of sustaining the
cause.
j. mecune smith then offered the follow
ing resolutions, which were unanimously a-
j opted.
resolved, that the colored citizens of the
city of new "kork, welcome frederick doug
lass into their midst.
resolved, that the north star, publish
ed at rochester. n. y., and edited by a
freedinan, is living proof of the fitness of
daves for liberty and enfranchisement.
resolved. that the sacrifices made by
frederick d >ugla&is in supporting the north
star newspaper, and the gieat ability he has
displaved in editing the same, entitle him to
ihe cordial support of the friends of freedom
throughout the world.
resolved, that it is the special duty of the
free colored citizens of these united states to
support the north star, as the defender of
their cause, and that of the slave.
mr. george p. dow ning then offered a re- j
soluiion.which was adopted, for the appoint
ment of a committee of ten, to act as agents
in soliciting subscriptions for the north star, i
the following committee was nomina:ed
and appointed, viva voce. george p. down-1
ing, mrs. p. bowers, jonas b. townsend,'
mis. m. thompson, william a, tyson,
mrs. c. b. ray, john j. zuille, tennis g. j
campbell, mis. j. m. smith, peter w. ray.
an anti-colonization meeting was announ-j
ced for monday evening, april 23rd, by the
rev. j. w. c. pennington, the pastor of the
church.
cash collected, and subscriptions paid, $3o
james m. gloucester, chairman, j
j. mcccnesmith. sec. j
florence association.
mr. editor: —at a meeting of the citizens j
of rome, (without distinction of color.) held
at tibbat’s hall, on the 30th, day of march.;
deacon steadman in the chair, mr. myers
addressed the meeting with the happiest result,
in his ofptiand style of speaking; and the ir.er- i
chants of our place pledged themselves to:
take all the lumber which we brought to this
market, and pay us cash, at cash prices.
there was a gentleman present, who stated
that he was well acquainted with the lands in
the town of florence, and that the land was i
good tn raise grain, and stock of all kinds and
that he was willing to certify to it.
at the close of the meeting, the following
resolutions were adopted;
resolved, that we the citizens of rome,
having daily communications with the citizens
of florence, and knowing that the lands of
florence are good for grain, &c., v\e give
our aid with pleasure towards forwarding the
i orence association to the successful tet
'i ination of that glorious enterprize; also,
resolved, that we having but a limited
acquaintance with mr. stephen mvers, the
general agent of the association, but having
fo'nd all his statements, and transactions in
regard to the association to be fair and honor
aide, we c an place implicit confidence in his
woid, and therelore recommend him to the
colored citizens of oneida countv; also.
resolved, that we tender mr. s. myers
our best thanks for explaining to us in such a
clear manner, the plans of the florence farm
ing ass»»cialion; also,
resolved, that the proceedings of this
meeting be published in the north star,
rochester impartial cmien, syracuse—
and the ami-slavery standard, new york.
deacon steadman. pres.
thomas johnson, sec,
rome, march 31st, isi9.

i friend dolglass: —as the question i?
frequently asked us why we do not go where
slavery exists, and lecture there on the sub
ject, and we are as frequently told, that the
people at the north are all abolitionists. 1
will give yon the character of some of them
as illustrated a few nights ago in spencerport
sunday april 15th, i lectured to a large audi
ence in the presbyterian church at adams ba.
!>in, the meeting was opened with a prayer
from mr. ball. monday, 16th, i §j>oke at
ihe methodist church on the lyle toad, in the
town of gates. the audience was not very
urge, hut evidently quite whigginh. an old
man, a worthy member of the church to
which he belongs, but would r.ot be in a
christian church or decent society, said it was
too hard for tbeir wives and families to be ob
liged to sit and hear me tell of the brutality
of the slaveholders and their abettor*,
i la it right that we should submit to these in
dignities i i* it easier to bear the infliction
the rod than it is to administer it* where is
the wrong of slavery 1 is it in our telling you
your wickedneaa, or your continuance in it.
i a mr. t'oaser, whig magistrate placed
i oij zaek behind general washington,
(then dared me to tonch him. failing to
'drawsout others to bis assistance, ha told me
that egga, bricks, and atone* should be my re
ward, if 1 dared to give utterance to auch sen
timents in spencerport as i had attend there.
tuesday, 17th, i lectured to a large audience
■»f manly persona, ltn the briek school house
on the lyle road.
wednesday, i6(b, 1 went to my appoint.
spencerport. the meetteg was held
<in the method** church. tho todioogg mm
large, bet very disorderly; they turned like
serpents, and stamped their me tike asses
seeing they were displeased with ay remarks
i asked to be corrected, if i had firia artier*
ar.ee to a single sentence that was dot tree.
the reply was, we hate come to hear yon talk
about aiavery. “thai, (said i) is the vary
thing 1 am doing, if wt had no slaveholders
me should have no slaves, i am disnssaisg the
character of a slaveholder. in the president of
the i'nited states. if slavery is a disgrace,
upon whom rests the disgrace? do yen make
stakeholders more honorable by having them
j to rale over you. or do yon make yourselves
j less booorable in choosing them 1 you may
call good evil, and evil good, bat they
will ever rrir.sn the same. that which
ch»d and humanity have cuised, let no man
call good. ia it a crime for me to love my
country 1 have i shown bitterness of feeling
m speaking to you! are yon not guilty of
all that i have accused you? have i asked
you f»w gold and silver, or have i naked yon
to take your feet off the necks of three mil
lions of your countrymen, whom yon have so
long oppressed for this you threatened to
stone me, wheie is your *yini«tby? is it with
ibe oppressed ot the oppressors! dare you
call youraelve friends to your country, who
have elected to the highest office in the gift
of tbe nation, a man in whom yon could see
nothing but blocs], rapine, and rubbery?—is
the battle field the place for men tn learn acts
of humanity, and have instilled into them the
principles of peace? is the slave mart the
piaoe for men to learn to deal justly, love mer
cy, and w alk humbly before god? if these
things are true, why am i to be stoned for
idling them. it may be painful to your ear*
to hear them, but far more painful to us who
who are made to endure them. i came among
you to speak for the dnmb—the cruahed and
the bleeding slave; i pointed out the new
links in their chains that you had forged and
for this act of justice and humanity, you bar
red your doors against me, and in violation of
your law you tried to gag me, heaause i dared
to call zach. taylor th:it old and skilful
murderer and cradle plunderer, a disgraced
man; but if god spares my life and strength—
you ahall h ive him in florida with his bloodhounds
training.
and in mexico tiie veins of his innocent victims
dn*ini"g;
you shall have him ready and rough,
until you repent and cry—enough!
thursday, 17th. being unable to obtain a
house in spencerport to lecture in, i went to
ogden. here i stopped with an aged lady,
whose heart was larger than her fortune. on
learning that i had a horse, she enquired of
her daughter how much money there was in
her purse. she answered “five shillings.”
“it is enough, let him take his horse to the
tavern to he fed,” she replied. i thanked
her, and told her my mission was not to rob
widow’s house?, and for a pretence make long
prayers, but to cry out against these wrongs.
in the evening, i spoke in the school house
to a small audience, the general’s friends did
not pay me a visit. john s. jacobs.
romantic, rather —an incident in real
life has lately benn the subject of common
talk in this quarter and in giving it a wider
publicity, we are not conscious of dome
wrong; indeed, those who have requested to
see it ,in print,’ may charge us with neglect
ing to furnish the ‘news,’ if it is withheld.
weshalhherefore give an outline of the
storv. as told to us, leaving the reader to color
it with the rosy hues of fancy. a woman at
herring river, whose husband is a sailor, had
seen the appointed time for her partner’s arri
val home, pass hy without his return. one.
two, three, fonr years pa««rd, and still he
came not. whether ‘hope defereu’ made the
heart of the expectant one sick, or not, may
perhaps he learned ftom the sequel. tired of
her single blessedness, however, she again
plightpd her troth to a secnnd wooer, and
everything seemed to bid fair for th consumma
tion devoutly to he wished. on sunday last,
their‘intention’was duly posted hy the town
clerk. during the same day, however, the
long-absent husband returned to disappoint the
anticipations of one at least of the parties con-,
cerned. it appears that the man’s detention
abroad was occasioned by incarceration in a
southern prison, on a chatge of endeavoring,
to free a slave. in his account of the matter.!
he savs that the mate of the vessel in which
he was coming home, secreted a slave on
hoard: that in leaving the harbor, the craft got
aground, and acfng under the impression that
the vessel would he visited and a search made
for the runaway, the mate told the captain that
the narrator had enticed the slave away.
thereupon, the two latter were ordered to he
nut on shore, and given up to the authorities.
ottr hero, being a colored man. was at once
provided for bv the hoxpitahfe southerners;
and for three long years ihe walls of a dun
geon enclosed him. preventing all communica
tion with his friends. itn now arrives home
with an enfeebled bodv; and we trust his state
of destitution will excite the commiseration of
those of his neighbors who are able to make
him comfortable. —sandwich (vass.) obtrrev.
flooring in the new york state prts
os.—bv the state act of d<‘cember, 1847-
the infliction of any hlows whatever upon a
convict except in eelf-de cnee; or to suppress
a revolt or insurrection. was strictly forbidden.
the inspectors have given the milder system
of discipline, without the infliction of hlows. a
full and fair trial. they now declare that it
has proved entirely successful. disobedience
and disorder have not resulted from the dis
continuance of the use of the cat. tn neither
of the states prisons has the discipline been
relaxed, hut on the contrary exhibits an evi
dent improvement. men labor more cheer
fumv, peform s greater amount of work, lesa
frequently violate the rules, and become more
huraaniv/'d rather than htutabred in their feel
ings. whil» the necessity for inflicting punish
ment at all becomes greatly diminished.
a sarrudav's new moo* a wit one.—
dr. foster. of bruges. has made a cnmmnni
ratinn to the rnval astronomical society. in
which he declares that the journal* of the
weather kept hv his grandfather, father, and
himaelf, ever since 1767, to the present time,
whenever the new moon has fallen on a sat*
nrdav. the following twenty davs have been
wet and windy in nineteen cases ontoftwenrv.
this is undoubtedly a curious fact, and it will
he rendered still more so should the neat
nineteen out of twenty prove the reverse.
there will be a new moon on saturday, the
24th of match. meteorologists, be on tha
look out!
madam* darasmovt. better know ss the
celebrated “fanny wright,” has been in town
for several days past, purchasing farming im
plements and other matters for stocking her
extensive plantation in teneseee. she is now
engaged in a landable effort »o work a refor
mation in tre ruinous avstem nfeuhnre which
retards the growth of all slate regions, and
ifanvbodv can bring about auch a devoatlr-io
be-wished-for consummation *ha is just ihe
i woman to do it. sho is a ptodtgy of energy and
omerpttse, and an example of thomngh-going
determination worth* the attention of ’ho ster
ner sex. mona daraamont. we understand,
fa in europe selecting stock for thotennesee
plantation, among which he will aeenre som*
of the famous a lapse* sheep, which it is aep
pooed can he aoceeasfon* raised in that lari.
tade.~ck*fun**fi dt»
monual, april sb.
the governor general case don is the
legislative chamber yealerrfar. and gave the
rwj*! ascent to um hill aoihornuag the pay
amt ef the indemnity far kuea sal need dm
the rebelune. on leatnag pihaatot
hnuae be was pelted by the nob, who were
ebidly orangemen, «w bewd to tetire to bit
residence io the country.
la the evening, the assembly benaf in tea*
■on, a about from the outride gave iatiamtma
of* a riot.—the windows of the puitaaest
beddings were broken in, and the legislators
compelled to retreat whole valleys of stones
were thrown in at the windows. when the
nob took pome ston, the members retreated to
the library, and behind the speaker's ehair.
the rioters carried off the mate, broke down
the gas lights, ooe took ponsesrisn of the
speaker’s chair, soother muttered iambic
about dissolving parliament, sad the rest were
engaged in break mg down benches, and des
iroiyng furniture. haring demolished the uttari
or of the building,it waa fired from the mc-
gill street side, and in a abort time became a
mam of ruins, with a valuable library, and
legislative records. other bowers adjacent
were abonxuot. sergeant-at- aram ghiahahn
was struck at with clubs.
sir allan mcxab guy, messrs. robinson.
bagley, and stevenson, were the last in the
house, and tried to save some of the books,
bat rould not.
h<«. george moffatt, hairmin of the
british league, and many others, are under
airest on charges of high treason.
tbe parliament house waa is the heart of
the city, in which ate barracks containing sev
eral regiments of regulars. this ipw«.i.b «ll
is quiet. —boston atlas.
movtbcal, april 98—7 o'clock, p. m.
the entire archives, library, and other
contents of the parliament hoase, are destroy
ed—the mace, which is tbe emblem of majes
ty* was borne off by one of the mob in tri
umph. aa he was going down stairs, mr.
chisolm, the sergeant-at arms caught bold of
it, and nearly succeeded in rescuing it but
two or three of the party came to the rescue,
tfruck the sergeant with clubs, and compelled
him to relinquish his hold.
several arrests have been made for arson
and high ireason, and tbe prisoners have been
escorted to jail by a detachment of tbe 19th
regiment, and an immense mob. it is ru
mored that there will be a “jail deliver?” to
night.
a memorial to his excellency sir benja
min dunbar, praying him to order the troops
to remain in quarters and leave the people to
settle their own affairs, is in course of signa
ture- and will be sent down with a deputation
to sorell to-night-
a mass meeting takes place in the champ de
mars at s o'clock to-morrow.
the hon. george moffat is to be the chair
man.
fhe french are enr< ii ng themselves as a
bodyguard to protect lord elgin.
despatches have been sent by telegraph to
the upper provinces. the government at
tempted to gain possession of the canada tele
graph wires for the day, but were promptly
denied them.
montreal, april 30, 1849.
the entrance to the assetndly was guarded
by soldiers; some of the members complained
that the troops refused to let them pass into the
house, and mr. holmes comp'aineci that he
had been attacked by the mob, but that he had
no difficulty in getting by the troops.
from the montreal herald extra.
on the house going to present the address,
voted on satuaday, to the governor, showers
of stones were thrown at the members over
the heads of the soldiers, capt. wetenhall,
who was mounted on a white charger, and
mr. le blani, were the magistrates present.
the latter proceeded to tead the riot act,
which he drew from his pocket, being a small
piece of paper; but. in our opinion, before he
could read more than two lines, the order was
given for the troops to charge, which they did,
the crowd falling back in double quick time.
no damage was done, and tbe crowd teturned
shortly after and gave the soldiers three
cheers. the members of the assembly re
turned to the house soon after adjourned. a
long pause occurred in the street while the
governor>vas within.|wh!ch was divers tied by
several small street fights at the foot of lanes
and streets, and running from notre dame
street to the river side. the people still ex
pected in vain the egress of the governor gen
eral.
at length the troops were ordered to
right about face, and the men in the street
first learned by that signal that the gove nor
general had left ihe government house. they
were immediately on the alert, and with that
instinctive decision with which street crowds
discover their object, learned in a moment that
instead of returning through notre dame
street to place des armes, the carnage had
proceeded in the other direction, and waa le
velling at a most rapid rate through shelbrooke
street. some bf the persons who were stand
ing about gosford street were of course
aware of what w as going on and these followed
the carriage as speedily as possible—others
took cabs, calashes and everything that would
run. it was a chase. at length his lordship
was overtaken at molson’s corner. at this
point a furious attack was made with stones on
the carriage, (he back of which was complete
ly smashed; and its course, which appeared
at first to be directed by way of sherbroke,
street, was changed to the road which goes
round back of the mountain.
annexation repudiated.—ln the canada
legislature, on saturday last, while the tanff
question was under discussion, the subjeet of
annexation was casually alluded to, mr. blake
sohcitar genera., spoke as follows.
he deeply regretted that such a proposal
should have emanated from any political par
ty, or from any section of the province. the
darkest day for canada would be that on
which the last of llte british troops should
leave her shores. he trusted that he should
never see that day, and he believed the senti
ments he had uttered would he responded toby
er *ry hon. member of the house.
this speech was received with loud cheers
from all quarters of the house, sod as mr.
blake is one of the disaffected party, it is con
clusive that canada is not yet ripe for
tiou front england.
kidnapping.—the denton (md journa
says that on the night of the 6th tnct. an atro
cious outrage was committed in caroline co.
the circumstances are aa follows.
three free negro youths, a girl sod two
boy*, were kidnapped and taken from the
country with intent toaell them to the sooth.
theii names are margaret davis, hubbard,
and james clarkson. they had been hired
for a few days by mr. james t. wooters, near
denton, for the ostensible purpose of cutting
eorn-a*alks. after being a da* or two in mr.
wooter’a employ, they suddenly disappeared,
and no one euuld learn aught of their wherea
bouts.
a suspicion of their being forcibly kiodap*
ped soon took poaseasioa of the public mind,
sod inquiry being set oo foot, it eras, after
some days, discovered that they had been
secretly earned through huntington creek, to
wards worcester county, thence to 'virginia.
w* learn that the negroes are now in nor
folk. efforts are being made to return them
to their parents. several others are implica
ted with mr. wootnfa ia ibis outrage, one of
whom, mr. parker of keel county, negro
dealer tba officers are now on the look eet
for wnours sod others, who axe supposed to
have engaged in the kidnapping.
exkiciac.—the london corr*poodnat of
the nstioosl intelligencer *n*s:
•‘the way english ladies five ia the open
air. the daily faugee they eadera. sad the
pleasure they fed ia it, would astonish sunaa
of the dnlicaie da«»ea near *oe; eoi boie, how
ever, than the healthy feeling and good looks
they reap from it would.
the newspapers have sufficiently in
formed ua of the public events whict
occured during the last week of febru
ary. but many a sad tale connected witk
these days of horror remains unknown,
save to the tew who acted in them. on
one of these occasions, when the noise
of firing and drum-beating sounded at a
sufficient distance to lead me to suppose
actual danger was equally far off. i set
out to see a friend who lived about
three quarters of a mile further from
paris than the street i then resided in.
it was a hue fresh spring day; the low
er branches of the lilac-trees began to
burst their leafy buds; the snowdrop,
crocus, hepatica, and gay yellow daffo
dil enlivened the gardens, and the wall
flower filled the air with fragrance.
after the sleepless nights and anxious
days i had lately passed, 1 was more
than commonly susceptible to these
sweet perfumes and sights, which
seemed to speak of peace and
quiet so strongly, that they almost in
duced a feeling of security for the mo
ment; and i began to comfort inysell
with the hope that the worst was over,
and that although it might he long ere
commercial or social confidence wm
restored, still life and property would
be safe, and by degrees those who lived
out of the gay world, as i did, would
return tothe usual routine of their for
mer quiet habits, and that to them at
least a monarchy or republic made
little difference, while political matters
would in due tiuic be settled and arran
ged on a new plan. kpcouraging my
self in these pleasing anticipations,
though i then more than half feared
they would turn out delusions, as they
asuredlv have done. 1 walked briskly
forward when all at once the peculiar
tap, tap’ tap of the drum, and the heavy
unmeasured step of a large body of men,
struck upon my practiced ear, telling
too plainly it was not military who w'ere
approaching. while deliberating
which way to turn, i looked up and
saw there was no retreating, without
showing the alarm which was always
dangerous at this time. making there
fore, a virtue of necessity, 1 walked
boldly toward, and addressing a tall,
fierce-looking, rather sullen young
man in a blouse, i said that sure of the
politeness of frenchmen, i ventured lo
request him to conduct me past the ad
vancing body of citoyeiis, who perhaps
—as the wit equaled the gallantry of
his brave countrymen —might be led to
make quizzing remarks on a lady walk
ing alone ainid so many men during
such stirring times. at first he looked
as if disposed to be insolent; but as i
proceeded with ray speech, his vanity
was no doubt satisfied, for his counte
nance relaxed, and he smilingly assured
me he would with pleasure accompany
me, and accordingly we walked, unmo
lested, and almost unobserved, through
this martial crowd. all were armed
variously; some had swords drawn,
many had their arms bared up to the
elbows, ready for bloody work, and the
red flag of the revolution waved every
here and there, whih fries,
songs, and howls rent the uu.
at length we arrived at clear ground,
and i smilingly thanked my conductor.
“salut, citoyenne,” said he.
“vive la nation! vive la repub
lique!’, responded i, and walked on
somewhat relieved.
1 arrived at madame de vann ion’s
house, and found her at work with her
daughter celestine—an only child of a
bout nine years of age; a little girl of
much family consequence, as she was
heiress to an immense fortune on the
death of her'grondfather. we talked
ofthe times, and i related what i had
just passed through. “ah!” said she,
“many bands of insurgents have gone
by this house, hut we do not approach
the windows, and none of them have
ever, molested us; but god knows w hen
our turn may arrive. there, you may
hear their horrid revolutionary tap now
at a distance.”
shortly after it became more audible;
nearer and nearer it approached, and
we looked at each other with alarmed
countenances. at last the pikes and
flags became visible.
“louis! louis!” cried madame de
vannion tothe servant, “boltthe doors,
and at your peril look out of the win
dow.”
the noise increased, and celestine
began to cry. her mother tried to
comfort her, and we talked ot the un
reasonableness of being frightened at a
mere sound; but as there was some
reason to apprehend a slight derange
ment in the action of the heart in her
case, her mother acting upon the ad
vice of her medical attendant, rose to
prepare a soothing draught they were
in the habit of giving to the child when
any unusual circumstance agitated her.
had heard of their alarms on this sub
ject without myself sharing in their
fears, for celestine was sturdily made,
bright complexioned, fond of play, and
accustomed to live so much in the air,
and to take so much exercise without
ever appearing over-fatigued, that i al
most inclined to think hv parents were
aver anxious about their precious
charge, and used the doctor’s name as
in excuse for spoiling her a little, par
icularlv as even he announced that by
careful tending she would outgrow
;hese symptoms.
at this moment, however, her unusual
pallor struck me, aud i drew her kind
ly towards me, while madame de van
nion proceeded to the next room in
tearch of a draught of water. upon
opening the door, we discovered mon
lieur louis standing staring at the open
window'.—“come back, louis,” said
madame de vaimion quickly.—“ did i
not tell you on no pretence to approach
the window?**
“be easy, toadame, it will be nothing—
they are past.” at this moment he
started, and exclaimed, “ah! one of
them looks hack; he looks angry!”
the window!’/ cried we, stri
ving to drag him from it. but he
seemed spell-bound; he wrung his
hands.
“they have turned; they are coming,
kis over with us! ah madaroe, may
heaven have merry on ua!” the
next minute thundering plows fell on
the door of the house. “outres
ourres!”
"louis, said bis mutrfm with quisti
dignity, “open tbe door.”
'hie pale quaking coward answered,
“no, no: no such thing!to the cellarf m
and he disappeared.
the knocking and kicking continued,
and mv friend advanced to the window
“what do you want, rues amis!”
“want! everything; meat, mooey,
bread, wine! come, come, come, open
the door, inalheuruse.”
at that moment one of these madmen
presented his musket at her and tired;
but fortunately being quite drunk, the
ball went on one side.
“do not beat down my door.’* ***d
my friend; “wait and i will open it.
and both of us advancing, keeping the
poor child behind us, opened the door.
the multitude poured in; they were
drunk, and dirty, and tilled the bouse
with u horrible odor. they opened
every closet, every door, every drawer,
and three shots were fired in the draw
ing-room; however, they fortunately
hit none of us. wine and bread, and
thirty francs, which were lying on the
mantlepieee. were taken; and one ruf
fian seized a pcndule, but the leader
crying out at once, *‘no robbery be
replaced it.
“are they going to kill us mamma!
asked little celestine.
“my child, i cannot tell; but if they
do, we shall go to god, and in heaven
there are no terrors.
“i am saving my prayers, mam
ft
ma.
she shed no tear —she uttered no cry
—but amid all the uproar of this fearful
scene, the beating of her little heart
was distinctly audible. we trembled,
yet our w-ords were calm, and our looks
firm. at-last there were signs ol de
parture; the noise lulled; the bayonet ted
the bread, drank the wine, putting the
bottles to their lips, and then breaking
them afterwards: they pushed us rudely
about, under pretence of shaking hands;
with us, saying they would on their re-
turn settle matters with the man who
had only escaped a coward’s death that
time by running away to conceal him
self.—they then left us amid oaths,
shouts, and laughter; and when the
door was closed, und the fearful sounds
had died in the distance, wc began toj
feel a terror that during the scene i
have just described we had not been
conscious of. all was put in order by
our own hands in silence, for we durst
not speak; and we felt that active exer
tion alone could preserve us from faint
ing. on m. do yaunion’s return toj
dinner, when his wife related to him'
the events of the morning, he appeared
anxious about the effect such a fright
must have had upon celestine. the
child assured him that she hardly re
membered the scene. she recollected
at first 4error, and then a feeling of
faintness, and that her heart had beat
very quickly: but that she feared noth
ing now, that her own papa was beside
her. still, she did not regain her for
mer cheerfulness, nor was she calm and
gentle as heretofore; she became irri
table with her companions, impatient
with |ier companion—with her bonne,
and frequently left her plays, complain
i ing of headache. the unsatisfactory
state of her health ended in an attack
of fever, from which in due time she re
covered, although her complexion
never regained the brilliant hue for
which it had been remarkable, but re
mained pale as a marble statute. an
other singularity was, that neither be
fore nor during her illness, after her
recovery, did she ever name the visit
of the insurgents; and she showed so
much uneasiness when any one else al
luded to it, that her parents requested
their friends to avoid the subject and
talk ofother more cheerful matters be
fore her. she soon returned to her
toys, plays, lessons, and seemed as hap
py at the noisy usual though a
drum, a sliuot, always turned pale. one
evening, as there appeared to be more
than connnorn disturbance in the street’
and celestine appeared uneasy, her
mother proposed that she should retire
early to rest, hoping to get her to sleep
before the uproar increased. she
obeyed at once, and was soon in her
little bed.
“good night, my child” said her mo
ther, kissing her. “but stay, i will go
and get you a chocolate bonbon.’ on
her return she he held it out: “here,
my love, here is the bonbon;” but cel
estine’s hand was not raised. “are
you asleep already? are you ill?— or
are you playing ine a trick?—coine,
lake the bonbon, snd give ine another
kis3. speak, celestine, to mamma; do
not agitate me, inv dear child.”
little celestine was dead’
letters to country c.irls. j
we commend the following article;
from the “pittsburg visiter,” to all our
female readers. mrs. swisshelm is do
ing her gex a good by writing such lec
tures. there is more truth, philosophy
and common sense in this lecture, than
in two-thirds of the volumes written by
the medical men of the world.— true
democrat.
well girls. 1 got such a scolding from!
one of your number for w riting no letter
last week, that 1 am afraid to neglect
it this time. you know i said i could
quilt almost as fast as two of you. the
reason is, 1 take care of my hands. one
half of you are too proud to do this. you
would not be caught putting a glove on
to sweep, or hoe, or weed in the gar
den, because you think it would jook as
if you w ould like to be fine ladies. if
you sec any one taking care of her
hands, or careful to wear a sunbonnet
to preserve her complexion, you say she
is “proud and stuck up.” but it is you
who are proud—too proud to think you
require any care to look nice. you
have an idea you look well enough at
any rate. so you just make yourself as
rough and course as ever you can, by
way of being independent.—your
hands grow as stiff and hard as if you
held a plough, and swung a scythe and
when you take a needle you can
scarcely feel it in your fingers. this
is wrong. there are many things
which women ought to do, which re
quire your hands to be soft and pliable,
and they should be careful to keep
them so, in order to make them useful.
ever) woman who lives in the country
should knit herself a pair of gloves,
with long fingers closed at the tope—
not mils, to let the fingers get hard.
there should be a piece of ribbed work
at the wrist to make them stay on.
wbn you use your hoe, rake or
broom, put on your gloves —when you
take hold of skillet, pot or kettle
handle take a cloth to keep your hand*
from being seared and hardened. 'v hen
you wash clothe? or dishes, do not
bare water so hot aa to feel unpleasant.
many gftfs scald their hands until they
can put them into water almost boiling.
such bands are unfit to use a needle or
a pin. they are not so good to bold a
baby or drear a wound. take care of
your hands, and do not forget your
faces. i hare seen so many country
giria, who, at sixteen, had complexions
like alabaster, and at their faces
would look like, runuet bag, that had
hung six weeks'in the chimney corner.
one reason of this is, they do not wear
a bonnet to protect them from the sun.
another reason is, the habit they have
of baking their faces before a wood hre.;
i have seen some women stand before a
great roasting fire and cook, until i,
thought their brains were as well stewed
as the chickens; and they would get so
used to it they would make no attempt
to shield their heads trom the heat.
nay, they will set down in the evening
and bake their faces by the hour; and
this is one of the reasons why american
women grow old, withered and wrink
led, fifteen years before their time. but
another and the greatest reason is, your
diet. people in thi6 country live too
well and eat too much hot bread and
meat. country people usually eat!
richer food than those who live in the
cities, and that is a reason why with all
their fresh air, their average age is
little greater than that of city tolks.
thousands of beautiful, blooming coun
try girls make old, sallow-faced women
of themselves before they are thirty, by
driuking coffee, smoking tobacco, and
eating hot bread. —they shorten their
lives by these practises about as much
as city indies with their fashionable
follies. ido not know' what you think
about it, girls, but i think it is about as
much of a sin for w omen to get old,
brown, withered faces, by eating to
much as it is for men to get red noses by
drinkingtoo much very few people think
it a disgrace to have a bilious fever;but i
had just as lief the doctor would tell
me that i was drunk as that i was bil
ious. the one would come from drink
ing too much, the other from eating too
much r all this is a serious matter, for
it alfects health and life; and the reason
why i talk about your complexion in
speaking ofit is, that everybody loves
to look well whether they will acknowl
edge it or not. now, people cannot
look well unless they are well; and no
one can be well very long who does not
try to take care of herself. the w r oman
who roasts her head by the fire, disor
ders her blood, brings on bead-aches,
injures her health, and makes her face
look like a piece of leather. —when
she swallows hot colfee, hot bread,
greasy victuals and strong pickles, she
destroys her stomach, rots her teeth,
shortens her life, and makes hersell too
ugly for any use, except scaring the
crows otfthe corn. j. g. s.
effect of shade on manures. —lt
is a well known iact that the earth is
capable of being converted into the best
manure. if densly shaded, it will un
dergo chemical changes, apparently
similar to those which vegetable and
animal matters do when they are con
verted into manre; namely, it is changed
in color, cocsistence, and fertilizing
qualities. this fertilized earth known
as vegetable mould, or virgin earth, to
be |the best of all manures. it has
hitherto been considered the residue of
vegetable decomposition vegetable
matters upon the earth’s surface, ex
posed to a free circulation of air, ap
pear to be decomposed by a different
chemical process termed mouldering,
which forms a trifling carbonized res
idue, destitute of fertilizing qualities.
and this is the case also when ploughed
under and deprived of contact with the
atmosphere. unless they are previ
ously saturated with water, or lime be
added, they do not undergo fermenta
tion, but, by mouldering, becomes use
less, if not pernicious, to after vegeta
tion.
the astonishing fertilizing effect of
vegetable matters, when thickly cover
ing the surface of the earth for a length
of time, cannot be accounted for by
their decomposition, for the quantity of
the residue of clover, leaves or straw,
would not be sufficient, even if it were
always equal in virtue to the best peru
vian guano. straw spread thickly up
on the poorest land—“land completely
exhausted of alkalies”—will enrich it
by the time it is decomposed.
leibig when a boy, —leibig was
distinguished at school as a “booby,”
the only talent then cultivated iu ger
man schools being verbal memory. on
one occasion, being sneeringly asked
by the master of the school, what he
proposed to become since he was so bad
a scholar, and answering he would be
a chemist, the whole school burst into
a laugh of derision. not long ago,
leibig saw his old school master, who
feelingly lamented ins former blind
ness tiie only boy in the same school
who ever disputed with leibig the sta
tion of “booby, was one who could
never learn his lesson by heart, but
was continually composing music, and
writing it down by stealth in school.
this same individual, leibig lately
i'ouud in vienna, distinguished as a
composer, and conductor of the impe
rial opera house. his name is reu
ling. it is to be hoped that a more ra
tional system of school instruction is
now gaining ground. can anything
be more absurd and detestable than a
system which made walter scott mod
justus leibig “boobies” at school, and
so effectualy concealed their natural
talents, that, for example, leibig was
often lectured before the whole school
on his being sure to cause misery and
broken hearts to his parents, while he
was all the time conscionus, as the
above anecdote proves, of the poses
sion of talents similar in kind to those
he has since displayed. —scientific ame
rican.
when a drop of chloroform is ap
plied to the leaf of a sensitive plant it
collapses for s time and opens again in
the saaae manner as when water or
other liquid fells upon it, but after the
application of chloroform it ia found to
have lost its sensibility and no longer
i t* contract when touched.

