From the Massachusetts Spy.
POLITICS AND THE PULPIT.
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher has been
recently engaged in a controversy with
the Journal of Commerce, concerning
the propriety of introducing the topic
of slavery into the pulpit. That paper
has lately had its sensibilities wounded
by an allusion made by Dr. Lansing to
Daniel Webster’s position, and by Mr.
Beecher’s article in the Independent.
The Journal has therefore conceived a
great horror for “Free Soil Sermons,
although it seems to have no objection
to a clergyman’s writing a political
pamphlet in defence of slavery as aided
and comforted by Webster. In the
last number of the Independent, Mr.
Beecher publishes a stirring article jus
tifying the introduction of the topic ol
slavery, as a moral question, into the
pulpit, and also urging it as a duty.—
He says in a strain of indiguation:
“Three million men, against natural
law, against every fundamental princi
ple of our state and national govern
ment, are, by law, thrown over lire pale
of the race, and dent«il et» Err mm.
This is not fit.for the Pulpit to mention;
it is allowed, nevertheless, to preach
about China and India! Every year,
thousands of children are snatched
from the parents’ bosom, and remorse
lessly sold everywhither. The Pulpit
is not the place for mentioning such
things, though it be allowed to snatch
children from the Ganges, and to
mourn over infanticide in Polynesia!—
Every year, husbands and wives are
torn asunder, Christian or no Chris
tian; and the Journal of Commerce
brow-beats that pulpit that utters a
word about such politics when it should
rather be busy in expostulating with
eannibals in Malaya, or snatching dev
otees from under the wheels of Jugger
naut! Every year, thousands of wo
men are lashed for obstinate virtue;
and tens of thousands robbed of what
they never have been taught to prize;
and the Journal of Commerce stands
poised to cast its javelin at that med
dlesome Pulpit that dares specie of
such boundless licentiousness, and send
it to its more appropriate work of evan
gelizing the courtesans of Paris, or tbe
loose virtue of Italy! and it assures us
that multitudes are thanking it for such
a noble stand. Some of those clergy*
men we know. The platforms of our
Benevolent Societies resound with their
voices, urging Christianity to go a
broad: stimulating the church not to
leave a corner of the globe unsearched,
nor an evil unredressed. But when
the speech is ended, the steel is behind
the Journal of Commerce to give it
thanks for its noble stand against the
right of the Pulpit to say a word about
home-heathen about their horrible
ignorance, bottomless licentiousness,
and about the mercenary inhumanity
which is every week selling their own
Christian brethren, baptised as much
as they, often preachers of the gospel
like themselves, praying to the same
Savior, listening to snatches of that
same Bible (whose letters they have
never been permitted to learn) out of
which these reverend endorsers of the
Journal of Commerce preach!
It requires distance, it seems, to
make a topic right for the Pulpit.—
Send it to Greenland, or to Nootka
Sound, and you may then practice at
the far away target. And the reason
of such discrimination seeins to be,
that preaching against foreign sin does
not hurt the feelings nor disturb the
quiet of your congregation; whereas,
if the identical evils at home, which
we deplore upon the Indus, or along
the Burampootra, are preached about,
the Journal says that it will risk tne
minister’s place and bread and butter;
and it plainly tells all Northern minis
ters that tf they meddle with such pol
itics, the)' wilt have their coats rolled
in the dirt; and the experience which
we have had of that operation at the
bands of tbe Journal, assures us that
the process is full dirty enough. Will
tbe Journal tell us how many leagues
off a sin must be before it ia prudent
and safe for courageous ministers to
preach against it?
Our laws scarcely recognise a crime
against man, save murder and violence
gain to it, that is not legal under sieve
VOL. 111. NO. 25.
laws. There is not a sensual vict
which we are taught to abhor, whicl
.slavery does not monstrously engender
There is not a sin which religion con
demns that is not garnered and,sown
reaped and sown again, by Americar
slavery. Among freemen, the road o
honor lies away from animal passion
fiom sensation, towards Conscience
Hope, Love, and Spiritual Faith. Bu
Slavery sharply turns the wretch down
ward and teaches and compels him tt
aibuive the task of life from such mo
tives as are common to him with the
ox, the ass, and tbe dog. The slave’t
pleasures are our appetites. His mo
tives are, almost of necessity, those,
from which religion most earnestly de
horts us. To our chldren labor it
honorable, because it is God’s ordina
tion of mercy; because it is an educa
tion; because it is the road alike to
health and temperate pleasure; because
it is the parent of wealth; because by
it the cheerful laborer builds bis house,
rears his children, and gives them
the means of knowledge. By Labor,
the North has subdued Nature, chunged
a parsimonious soil to fertility, built
dwellings for almost her whole popula
tion, raised the school-house, estab
lished the church, encircled the globe
with her Bhips, and made her books
and papers to be as blades of grass
and leaves of sumtger for number.
But in the South, as if unredeemed
from the primal curse, Labor, a badge
of shame, is the father of misery. The
slave labors with no cheer; it is no!
the road to respectability; it will honor
him with no citizen’s trust: it brings no
bread to his family; no grain to his
garner; no leisure in after days; no
books nor papers to his children. It
opens no school-house door, builds no
church, rears for him no factory, iays
no keel, fills no bank, earns no acres.
With sweat, and toil, and ignorance,
he consumes his life to pour the earn
ings into channels from which he does
not drink; into hands that never honor
him, but perpetually rob and often
torment.
This vast abomination, which see hes
and smokes in our midst, which is en
nervating and demoralizing the w tite
by the oppression of the black; in
which adultery, fornication, and a con
cubinage so awful exist, that, in com
parison to it, a Turkish harem is a
cradle of virgin purity; which every
hour does violence to nature, to the
sentiment of justice, and to the embod
iment of that sentiment into national
law; a system which makes n home im
possible, and the word family as much
a misnomer as it would be to a stable
or sheep-fold; which subsists only by
keeping the subject ignorant; which is
obliged to rank and treat the qualities
which our community most esteems—
independance, ambition, self-reliance,
thirst for knowledge, self-respect—as
most punishable crimes in the slave; a
system whose practice requires what its
laws recognize, that manhood must be
subvertedfe-that the slave must be in
telligent only for work, and religious
only to the extent of obedience; a sys
tem which, taking away all induce
ments to labor natural to man, is ob
liged to by suffering, or the
fear of suffering which, denying to the
faculties of a natural expres
sion, forces the miserable wretch to
cunning and craft, to lying and subter
fuge; whose whole natural tendency is
i to produce labor upon compulsion, and
laziness by choice, lying and thieving
under a sense of justice, and truth and
honesty with a feeling of their injus
tice: and which, at length, m its worst
1 and most damnable result, so subfer.ts
that instinct of liberty which belongs to
man the world over, that the slave
agrees to his condition, grows fat, and
laughs and sings, preferring slavery
with indulgence to eat and drink
I enough, to liberty, if he must pay the
price of that liberty by sustained exer
tion; —this huge, infernal system for
the destruction of meir, soul and body,
j must not be mentioned in the pulpit,
i lest the Sabbath be desecrated and the
peace of the congregation be dis
turbed
We shouid be glad, accoruing to4he
patent method of the Journal, to teach
men how to act upon Christian princi
ples, in their political position, without
saying a word about the subject. We
should heartily rejoice if we could in
i spire Christian honesty in Commerce,
without ever discussing men’s coinmer
cial duties. The Journal evidently
knows how this may be done. Will it
not bless the world with the secret? It
has in mind doubtless some Gospel
that will tree men from evil and not
disturb them; that will snatch away
their sins while they are aslep; some
i chloroform Gospel; some Gospel that
will convert the African slave-trader
without saying a word about the slave
trade; that will send Bruin and Hill to
the altar and the communion table,
without saying a word about the slave
pens and their weekly purchase and
tale of Christian girls and church mem
bers; that will convert the thief, and
by some charm lead him to abhor steal
ing, without saying a word about theft;
j .bat will make men intelligent in all
their relations to their fellows, without
saying anything of their duties; that
will turn the heathen from idolatry,
from fornication and incest, from infan
ticide and cannibalism, and the whole
retinue of abominations which we name
heathenism, without one word said, ex
cept about the literal Christ cruci
fied," which the Journal says must be
preached, whether men will hear or
lorbear. It must be preached in its
puniv and power, whoever may be of
fended. It is not man’s message, but
RIGHT OF IS NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR;
God’s, and must be delivered faithfully
The Sabbath is eminently the day, am
the pulpit the place for this solemn acl
It must be a Gospel of doctrine, o
abstract truth; but by no means a g<>H
pel to disturb him from practical sins
And we almost believe Lowell to hav<
stolen his doggerel from the Journal:
I’m wilting a man should go toll’able strong
Agin wrong in tbe nbatrnet, for that kind o’ «rooj
I* always unpopular, and never get* pitied,
Because it’s a crime one ever committed.”
If the excellent editor of the Journa
of Commerce were doomed to be
member of our congregation, we don’i
know how we could reconcile our sense
of duty with his notions of the Gospel
unless he would conserXto take his hai
and slip out while w«
were discussing his real sins, and comt
back in time to hear our opinion ol
total depravity, and the doctrine ol
Original Sin.
The Pulpit is the Dispensatory ol
society—the minister, a physician
preaching, a prescription of medicinal
truth for heart evils. There is not an
evil w'hich afflicts life, nor a temptation
proceeding from any course of life,
which the pulpit should not study. The
sources of right conduct, the hindran
ces, the seductions of business, the in
fluences of public life, the maxims ol
society, its customs, its domestic, com
mercial and public institutions; inshort,
whatever directly or indirectly moulds
the human character, is to be studied
by the minister, and its benefit or its
danger made known from the pulpit.
lu this work, it is to deal first and
most faithfully with the evils of its own
age, its own country, its own city, its
own congregation. Wherever men go,
the Pulpit is to follow them with its
true light. Whatever invades its pro
vince—that province is Right, Human
ity, Purity—be it Fashion, Commerce,
Politics, they are tearlessly to be met.
grasped, apd measured by the word ol
GoJ. Not only may the Pulpit thus
explore Life, hut il must, or else prove
bankrupt to Fidelity. It is not to fol
low the camp; but in spiritual things to
lead the people. It is not to wait till
foes are slain before it raises its spear;
nor go asking of political cabals what
it may say, nor cringe to any supercil
ious men ol commerce; but occupy it
self with only this twin thought how
best ta please God and benefit man.
Therefore, against every line of the
Coward’s Ethic’s of the Journal of
Commerce we solemnly protest, and
declare a minister made to its pattern
fitter to be sent to the pyramids and
tombs of Egypt to preach to old-world
mummies, than to be a living man ol
God among living men, loving them,
but never fearing them! God be thank
ed, that in every age hitherto such
pulpits have been found the ally of suf
fering virtue, tbe champion of the op
pressed. And in this day, after the no
table examples of heroic inen, in heroic
ages, when life itself often paid for fi
delity, the pulpit is to be mined and
sapped by insincere friends and insidi
ous enemies, and learn to mix the sor
did prudence of business with the so
norous and thrice heroic counsels of
Christ, then, O my soul, be not thou
found conspiring with this league ol
iniquity! that so, when in that august
day of retribution, God shall deni pun
ishment in flaming meusurc to all hire
ling and coward ministers, thou shall
not go down, under double-bolted thun
ders, lower than miscreant Sodom, or
thrice-polluted Gomorrah!
THE CONGRESS FUGITIVE BILL.
Men resist oppression, or seek to
escape from it, because they are men,
endowed with a sense of personal, in
alienable rights, an inextinguishable
love of liberty, and the capacity to enr
joy it. That tbe victim of slavery
should flee from its horrors, is no new
thing; and that the fugitive should find
sympathy among those not interested
in perpetuating his enslavement, can
excite no surprise among those who
understand the instincts and laws of
human nature. By the Mosaic code,
this sympathy found a sanction for its
manifestations in the law which pro
tected the fugitive servant from being
seized by his master, and secured to
him the protection and hospitalities of
the community in which he had taken
refuge. The modern Law of Nations,
regarding slavery as a municipal, a
merely local institution, does not bind
one State to surrender fugitive slaves
from other States. At times, conven
tions or treaties of extradition have
been made between neighboring pow
ers, in disregard of the dictates of hu
manity, in obedience to reasons ol
State policy. A friend has handed us
the following translation of an article
in a treaty of peace, entered into in the
year 902, between Leon Alexandre
V. Constantine, Greek Emperor a*
Constantinople, and Oleg, Regent of
Igor, second king of Russia, on the
occasion of the first invasion of the
Greek Empire by tbe Russians, under
Oleg.
“If a Russian slave take flight, or
even ilhe is carried away by any one
under pretence of having been bought,
his master shall have the right and
power to pursue him, and hunt for
and capture him, wherever he shall be
found; and any person who shall op
pose the master in the execution of his
right, shall be deemed guilty ot violat
ing this treaty, and be punished ac
cordingly.”
On occasion of a second invasion ol
the Greek Empire by tbe Russians,
another treaty was formed, in 945, in
which it was stipulated as follows:
“If any slave shall fly from Russia
into Greece, or ehall escape from tbe
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 1850.
Russian merchants residing iit Con
stantinople, the Russia! mg gi^r
have the right to punfa.tjli, »nd tc
1 hunt for and captur^ f hkt| |nd it h*
cannot be found, the ‘J 1 4
oath that his slave la# ir
which case, theGreelb ab«U pay the
said master, according to (enter trea
ties, two pieces of cloth forjMtry slave
thus escaping into Grejcq^ 1 and if a
Greek slave escape intojßilsiaJn the
1 not^he fowd shall be
1 the duty deliver up
1 which he shall Rave ere upon
the master shall pay to the lerson so
delivering up said slave two pieces ol
gold, by way of reward.”
Of course, the execution of the duty
thus imposed, and tho munnef of exe
cuting it, were left to the parties
severally contracting. There was no
common tribunal for the adjudication
of such cases.
It is remarkable, that after the lapse
of nearly nine centuries, we fini a bar
barous stipulation between two barbar
ous nations reproduced in the compact
of union of the most civilized end hu
mane republic of the nineteenth centu
ry. We are familiar with the provision
referred to:
“No person held to labor or service
in one State, under the lays thereof,
escaping into another, shall, ia conse
quence of any law or regulation there
in, be discharged from such service or
labor, but shall be delivered up on
claim of the party to whom such service
or labor my be due.”
The language of this clause of the
Constitution, like the phraseology of
the articles above quoted, is that of a
stipulation. No power is conferred
upon Congress by the language of the
clause expressly, and we havs never
been able to see how it could be fairly
implied. It bears the aspect of A stipu
lation between the States, and I would
seem as if it were left for the States
severally to provide measures for car
rying it into effect. Such, if we recol
lect aright, was the decision cf Chief
Justice Shaw of Massachusetts some
years ago, and such was the opinion of
many eminent jurists, until the decision
of the Supreme Court in the case of
Prigg. That decision sat aside, and
denied the right of, all State legislation
on the subject, asserted the exclusive
power of Congress to means
lor executing tbe provision. Jbut asser
ted, too. the right of the garter to seize
his slave wherever he imglifbf found,
and bear him back to the State whence
he had escaped, without process of
law.
The free States, finding fceir right
*to act on the subject denial by the
highest tribunal of the country, discon
tinued all such action. Some of them,
in view of the decision of tbc court,
that Congress could impose no duty on
State officers, in relation to the matter,
passed laws forbidding their magis
trates and officers ta issue
or serve process in the case of escap
ing slaves—laws clearly in harmony
with said decision, ®nd not in conflict
with the rights of slave claitnan.s.
Some States, too, in consideration of
the fact that, as the Court had asserted
the right ot slave cl®* mantB t 0 seize
their slaves wherever found, without
legal process, the liberties of portions
of iher own free popul®t* on might be
put in peril by sinister or mistaken
claim, passed laws securing to persons
claimed as slaves the right to have the
question legally determined whether
they were not free. And no nglitmind
ed man will pretend that BUC laws
were unconstitutional or violative of
the rights of slave claimants-
That the barbarous Russ should be
permitted in the dark ages to hunt and
seize by violence, in the territory of a
s?mi-barbarous Empire, any one ol its
inhabitants, whom he might choose to
claim as his fugitive slave, do” not
surprise us. But the masses have
emerged from degradation since th<*
tenth century. Personal rights are
now deemed sacred, and no guaranties
against their violation are held to be
too stringent. The State that would
deny to any person within its limns
the writ of habeas corpus, in order to
test whether he was entitled to his
freedom or not, would be wanting in
the first duty of a sovereignty—that
of the just protection of those within its
jurisdiction.
No free State has passed any laws to
discharge from service or labor persons
fugitive from other States where such
service or labor may be doe, but many
of the free States have severe enact
ments for the prevention and punish
ment of kidnapping. The man, then,
who seizes in one of these States a
person whom he claimed as his fugitive
slave does it at his peril. If the person
seized be a fugitive from service or
labor within the meaning of the Con
stitution, he is secure against punish
ment; but should it turn out that he has
seized a free person, the law visits him
with its penalty.
It may be said that this makes it
perilous for the owners offugitives to
assert their just rights. Be it so: a
State is derelict of duty which does not
protect its inhabitants against danger
to their liberties. Even a slaveholder
must admit that it is more important to
protect the liberty of the free, than to
perpetuate the slavery of the bondman.
The laws of the free States deprive
him of no rights, hut are intended to
guard every portion of their own peo
ple from wrong, and to put him on his
guard in the exercise of what he or
bis agent may deem his rights. The
trath is, the decision of the Supreme
GOD IS THE FATHER OF U 8 ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN-
Court, so far as it affirmed his rihgt to
seize and bear off without legal process
an alleged fugitive, is justly chargeaWt
with the collisions that have since taken
place in the recapture of fugitives from
service, and also with the laws -4«»
remedy injury from illegal seizures, pi
which the slave States complain. The
reclamation of slaves in States holding
no slaxes and hostile to slavery, is ai
best so offensive to the opinions and
feelings of their people, that slavehold
ers themselves tnust admit that it ought
to be conducted with as few irritating
concomitants as possible. When legal
process is issued, when it is served by
the officers of the law, when the pre
tensions of the claimant are made under
shelter ot the authority of the Unit id
States, there is no danger of collision
or violent interference. Americans
are distinguished for ther respect for
legal forms, and they will submit, in
the hope that no unconstitutional ag
gression or claim will be tolerated.
But it is a very different thing when n
stranger, with a band of armed men,
appears in a free State community,
and proceeds, without authority or law,
to seize by violence another stranger,
under pretence that he is a slave.
Know ng neither, and nothing of the
relations of the two parties, the people
see brute force put forth by one to de
prive the other of his liberty. Would
they not be less than men, did they
not interpose to see justice done?
State law is resorted to, for the un
known claimant many be a kidnapper:
the unknown claimed, a free man.
No community, however low in the
scale of civilization, will endure the
open display of violence against an ap
parently unoffending individual. Some
of the Judges of the Supreme Court did
foresee and predict precisely the con
sequences that have come to pass. We
repeat then, that for the collisions that
have taken place in the reclamation of
fugitives from justice, the Supreme
Court of the United States, and not the
legislation of the free States, is to be
held responsible.
Southern men, irrtated by the con
sequences of the decision of this Court,
without stopping to ascertain their true
cause, have suffered themselves to
become inflamed against the North, in
dulge daily in their denunciations of
rhe bad faith of Northern men, and
insist upon additional legislation by
Congress, to remedy their supposed
wrongs, although some of them admit
that to the States, rather than to the
Federal Government, the work of pro-1
viding means for executing the fugitive 1
clause of the Constitution belongs. Of:
the justice of their denunciations and
the reasonableness of their demands,
we may have something to say in our
next. —National Eia.
Eroin the N. Y. Tribune.
EFFECTS OF ABOLITION IN
JAMAICA.
We take the following from an able
and interesting letter from Jamaica in
the Evening Post. The writer it may
be seen does not think the main cause
of the decline of the Island to be the
abolition of slavery. His account of
the change among the black;
population is most satisfactory. It;
strikes us that the hundred thousand;
cultivators of their own land are much
better product of God’s earth than as
many slaves living at the mercy of an
owner. The letter begins by stating
the causes of the present state of the
Island as follows:
First —The degradation of labor, in j
consequence of the yet comparatively j
recent existence of Negro Slavery up
on the Island, which excludes the
white population from almost every
department of productive industry, and
begets it public opinion calculated to
discourage, rather than to promote in
dustry among the colored population.
2 —Nine-tenths of the improved
land is owned by absentees—which
implies unskillful tillage; an extra ex
pense on an aveargo of three thou
sand dollars a year for attorneys,
agents and overseers; great improvi
dence in the management ot the prop
erty, and few or no labor-saving im
provements. m
B.—The estates under culture were
all mortgaged for more than they were
worth, when the Emancipation bill
passed. This measure increased the
embarrassments of the residents, made
them the easy prey of their non-resi
dent creditors, and left them no means
or capital to conduct the cultivation of
the land to any advantage.
4.—The magnitude of the estates,
and the principles upon which they
have been cultivated, prevent the free
circulation of real property, tend to
accumulate the lands in the hands of a
few, to exterminate the middle classes,
or men of little or no capital, and to
beget a constant and unnatural antag
onism between capital and labor.
These causes,in my judgement, would
have conducted Jamaica to inevitable
ruin, had the tariff laws never been al
tered nor the slaves been set at liber
ty.
But I think I hear you ask, how
long is this state of things to continue,
or is it to be perpetual? To this I
will answer in brief: that it will con
tinue until the land gets into the hands
of people who are not ashamed to till
it. So long as it is held by English
landlords, f think it will continue to
depreciate in value. I say this with
all possible respect for them, many of
whom I know, and greatly esteem. It
will continue to depreciate in their
hands, I say, because they will not
cultivate it personally, nor can they
WHOLE NO. 129.
1 command the capital, fidelity and. skill
necessary to cultivate it with profit b)
agents. It will continue to depreciate
until the landholders will consent to
'<ell small fragments of their estates to
■he poor classes who are willing to
work the land with their own hands.
That process is now going on con
stantly. The colored people are rap
dly becoming proprietors. It is the
highest aspiration of most of them to
get a piece of land, sav from three to
five acres, which entitles them to vote;
and with two or three months’ labor,
during the cropping of the sugar, ena
bles them to live in comparative ease
and independence. On five acres they
can raise almost everything they re
quire.
Upon these tracts they raise not on
ly what they require for their own con
sumption, but a surplus which they
take to market, usually in small pan
niera upon donkies, or upon their
heads. Most every colored proprietor,
however, has n donkey, which costs
from seven to ten pounds, upon which
he packs all his property, and under
the custody of a woman often, some
times of a child, he sends it to town, to
be converted into money, with which
he purchases such articles of necessity
or luxury as his land does not produce
and he can afford. One of the most
interesting spectacles to be witnessed
about Kingston, is presented on the
high-road through which ther maket
people, with their donkies, in the cool
of the morning, pour into tho city from
the back country. They form an al
most uninterrupted procession of four
or five miles in length, and what strikes
the eye ot a Yankee at once is their
perfect freedom from care. Neither
poverty nor desire of gain had written
a line upon their faces, and they could
not show less concern at the result ol
their trip if they were going to a festi
val. \ou will readily perceive how
strong and universal must be the de
sire of the poor laborers to exchange
their servile drudgery, at less than a
shilling sterling a day, for this life ol
comparative ease and independence.
Of course it is very hard to get any
thing ahead upon the wages now paid
in Jamaica, and it requires no little
sell-denial and energy to lay up enough
to purchase one of these properties
with; but when they do get one they
never part with it except for a larger
or a better one. The planters call
them lazy for indulging in this feeling
of independence; but I never could see
anything in the aversion of the negroes
hereto labor which was not sanctioned
by the example of their masters.
I think the readers of the Evening
Post will be surprised when I tell them
that the number of these small nroori
etors is now considerably over 100 000
and is rapidly increasing. Their prop
erties average, I should think, about
three acres.—They have a direct in
terest in cultivating their land econ
omically and intelligently. The prac
ticeof planning their own Inbor, en
couraged by the privilege of reaping
its rewards themselves, exerts the
most important educational influences,
which will goon be much more appa
rent than they are now. When one
reflects that sixteen years ago there
was scarcely colored proprietor ol
land upo n the Island, and that now
there are a hundred thousand, it is un
necessary to say that this clas9 of the
P°i )U, ation appreciate the priviliges ol
ree *abor and a homestead far more
correctly than might be expected,
more especially when it i 9 borne in
mind tf, a t seven-tenths of these pro
priety W ere begotton in slavery, and
spent many years of their lives as
bondsmen.
It is very obvious to me that the
best estates of the Island are to un
dergo this process of division before its
real productive capacities can be
known. Their prices must fall to a
level with the means of those who cul
tivate them—the- laboring population—
which being all colored, imports that
the land is to pass from the whites to
the colored people before the Islund
con prosper. This I think inevitable,
if it remains a British possession.
It is objected here, that if the estates
are so minutely subdivided, the culti
vation of the great staples sugar cof
fee, and the manufacture of ruin, must
cease, because the works upon sugar
and coffee estates are very expensive
and require large capital, and the es
tates must be very large to compensate
for the outlay in that direction. For
example, a good range of sugar works
could not be erected for less than
$50,000. The proprietor of twenty
five or fifty acres could not afford to
keep such costly buildings for the man
ufacture of his limited stock, much less
could the smaller proprietor of three,
five or ten acres.
The answer to this objection seems
perfectly obvious, and yet no one here
seems to understand it. They have
only to observe one of the most familiar
principles of economical science, and
the whole difficulty is obviated. Let
them do what is done universally in
the Nor’heru States of our Republic—
separate the functions of the agricultu
rist from those of the manufacturer,
and then both departments of industry
will be better conducted, upon at least
one-tenth the capital now required.
There is no conceivable reason why
central sugar-mills, for example, should
not be established, where the planters
could take their cane to be ground for
a toll, or to sell, for a return of a giv-;
en quantity of sugar, or molasses or
rum, or money, or whatever might be
agreed upon.
CorrupondwH* of Tift Triton*.
RIGHTS OF MIC If IJT
OREGON, tet»
Washington, Wed. May 39.
ou will have learned with pJeasttse,*
ere this reaches you, that the Senate
has given its sanction to a Branch ot
the Mint, in your City and also one
for California. This is more favorable
than was generally anticipated. Tha
whole day was consumed upon this
important subject. But it was a day
better spent than any other dajr of the
session— perhaps one or two excepted.
For the details I must refer you to
your regular report of proceedings.
The bill from the Senate providing
for the appointment of a Surveyor-
General of the Public Lands in (Ore
gon, and donations of lands to actual
settlers, elicited an unusually stirring
debate in the House to-day. The par
ticular point of dissention was upon the
amendment excluding free colored set
tlers from the lands proposed to be do
nated. Mr. Giddings lod off with a
hold and truthful speech against tha
exclusive policy. He alluded, in terms
of deserved approbation, to the moral
worth as well as intellectual strength
of Frederick Douglass.and Samsel R.
Ward. Having drawn a very striking
portraiture, he then desired to know
on what principle of justice gentlemen
proposed to exclude such men from a
participation in these land grants. He
referred to the free colored population
as embracing many who were descend
ed from tue fathers of the nation, in
cluding even Washington himself. He
put a “poser” to the Democrats, who
advocated the exclusive policy, by ask
ing with what consistency, not to say
gratitude, disciples of Jefferson could
conset to keep from Oregon those in
whose yeins coursed the blood of
Thomas Jefferson There was some
sneering and jeering on the Southern
side, x as the Loco side might be called
with injustice to very few members, all
things considered) while Mr. Giddings
was speaking, but nothing like the de
gree of that sort of feeling once so
common. There was, indeed, a re
markable and gratifying spirit of tolera
tion.
Bat this was too tempting an oppor
tunity, for two or three of the represen
tatives of the Chivalry to lose. Con
rad of Louisiana fired a sneering shot
at Mr. Giddings’s “taste,” Btc. He
complained that he had represented
that the Caucasians were inferior to
the colored men referred to. Mr Gid
dings replied that he had admitted that
the whites were quite ns good as the
blacks! Mr. Conrad opposed the ex
clusion of the colored settlers, on the
ground that the South wanted to have
the colored population diffused. What
do you suppose he assigned as the
reason ot this wish? Why, that it waa
everywhere admitted to be a curse.
Of course, then, he is quite willing to
diffuse a curse! Bayly took the same
view as Conrad, and contended that
the course of the Territorial Legisla
ture of Oregon, in excluding free
blacks from citizenship, had acted in
violation of the spirit of the law of their
organization ns a Territory. In apply
ing the principle of the Anti-Slavery
ordinance, Congress did not anticipate
that the South would be thus cut off
from an outlet for her redundant free
black population in that direction,
which he alleged to have always been
the chiefobstacle to Emancipation. To
hear him talk, one would really have
supposed that the South had assented
most graciously to the application of
the Proviso principle to the Oregon
bill!
But the richest feature of this debate
was a speech, in particular reply to
Mr. Giddings, by Col. McMullen of
Virginia. He was very personal—so
much so that he was called to order by
the Chairman, (Mr. Strong.) He in
dulged in a number of those polite
lingual missiles, whose points have
been worn off by his chivalrous pre
decessors, through frequent use. He
complained of a grievous want of grati
tude on the part of Mr. Giddings, in
thus insulting his constituents, after the
favor he did him, some time ago, in
moving the floor for him, when he ap
pealed to his frinds to make that mo
tion. The redoubtable Virginian then
launched forth into a stream of gran
diloquence, in the midst of which the
hammer fell, leaving as his last words,
the declaration that he “had no doubt
the negroes referred to by the gentle
men from Ohio were descendants of the
first families of Virginia— i. t. the “F.
F. V's!” The gallant Colonel sat
down, with an evident feeling of self
satisfactisn. It is true there was con
siderable laughter; but he appro
priated this to himself, of course, as
induced by his wit! I should almost
regret to disturb his feelings.
It is understood that it is McMullen's
intention to reply specially to Mr. Hay
mond of Wheeling—that he has been
waiting for his speech. So you see
that there is at least one “treat” in
store.
Another important question arose in
the course of the long, exciting, and
decidedly disorderly debate on this
Oregon Bill. The detestable serpent
of .Yativeism shows its head frequently.
It was resisted by Mr. Sackett of your
delegation, and others, in a spirit of
praiseworthy manliness. Ou the ques
tion of destruction of Color in giants
of land the vote was mainly sectional.
The exceptions were, for the most part,
among the Western Loco-Focoa.
Some of these voted openly for th®
South—others remaining in their seats,
when the process of going through the
tellers presented a test ot their predi
lections! The vote on the insertion of
the word “white” stood 78 Yeas to 51
Nays Jrom a thin House.
A general and informal understand
ing was had before the Committee of
the Whole, as to the resumption of the
Oregon Land bill at an early day, out
of which a scene of great confusion
grew, when the Committee rose. It
got mixed up with the California ques
tion, which excited not a little jealousy.
The Chair having decided that it re
quired unanimous consent to entertain
a motion to fix a day, Mr. Giddinga
objected, and consequently the House
adjourned without an understanding
on the subject, after all. This cl< a*d
its doings and undoings for tht week.
The “Spring cleaning” will commence
to-morrow. Sioi^
A wife who loses her patience
may not expect to keep her husbands
heart.
XXXIit Congress.—l»
Washington, Monday, June 6.
Mr Webster submitted to the senate a
bill amendsitory of the act of 1793, relating to
rhe reclamation of fugitive slaves, which he
aaid he prepared last February, after much
deliberation, and which he had altered in no
particular since it was then drafted. The
bill was ordered to be primed.
Mr. Seward presented the proceedings of
a meeting of the citizens of Syracuse, ex
pressive of their viewß of the question now
before Congress-relative to Slavery and the
admission of California. Laid on the table,
and a motion to print referred to tbe Com
mittee on Printing.
Mr. Dickinson submitted a few remarks in
derogation of the Free Soil meeting from
which these proceedings emanated.
Mr. Foote presented the credentials of
Jefferson Davis, elected a Senator from Mis
sissippi for the. full term of lrom
the 4th of March next.
Mr. Rusk, from the Post office C ommittee,
reported a bill to reduce the rates of postage.
A message was received from the Presi
dent in' answer to a communication of tbe
Senate relative to the late Cuban Expedition,
which was laid on the table.
Mr. Davis of Miss called up the resolution
ofinquryin relation to the Round Island
Expedition, which was taken up and
passed.
Mr. Clarke submitted a resolution of in
quiry in relation to to the payment ot non
payment of instalments due the United States
under the Treaty of 1841, with Peru. Adop
ted.
On motion of Mr. Clay, the Senate took
up the Omnibus bill.
Mr. Soule laid on the the table, to have
printed, the following amendment, which he
designs proposing as a substitute for the first
three sections of the bill:
“Be it enacted, That as soon as Califor
nia shall have passed, in Convention, an ordi
nance providing that ehe relinquishes all title
or claim to tax, dispose of, or in any way to
interfere with the primary disposal by the
United States of the public domain within
her limits—that she will noCinterpose her au
thority and powei, so as to disturb or impede
any contrel which the United States may
deem advisable to exercise over such district
in the mining regions, either now discovered
or to be discovered hereafter, as may be in
cluded in any lawful grant made to private
individuals or to Corporations prior to the
cession of California to the United States;
that the lands of the non-residents shall never
be taxed higher than those of residents—
that the navigable waters shall be open and
free to all citizens of the United States, those
of California included, and that her Southern
limits shall be restricted to the Missouri
Compromise line 36deg. 30m. North lat. and
as soon as she shall have produced to the
President of the United States satisfactory
and authentic evidence that the terms set forth
above have been fully and exactly complied
with, the President of the United States be
ard is hereby autnonzed and requested with
out any further action on the part of Congress
to issue his Proclamation declaring that Cali
fornia is and she shall be admitted into the
Union upon an equal footing with the origi
nal States in all respects whatever.
Sec. 2 Be it enacted, That such portion of
the revenue collected in the porta of Califor
nia as may remain unexpended at the time of
the issuing of the President’s proclamation,
as aforesaid, shall be paid over to the said
State of California.
Sec. 3. Be it ereted, That the Senators
and Representative electe4, now before Con
gress from the said State of California, shall
be entitled to receive, and shall receive the.
mileage and the per diem pay allowed to the
delegates from the Sgrruory of Oregon, from
the day that the rawsage of the President
transmitting the Constitution of California
was received t»v Congress.
Sec. 4. Be it enacted, That* the country
lying between the 36deg. 30mo. of north lati
tude, and the bouddary line between Mexico
and the United States, established by the
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and extending
from the Pacific to the Sierra Madre, shall
continue a Teiritoiy under the name of “the
Territory of Sou th-Carolina,” and shall he
organized as such under the provisions of the
bill applying to tbe Territory of Utah, chang
ing, names where they ought to be changed
in all respects whatsoever, and shall, when
ready, able and willing to become a State,
and desiring to be such, be admitted into the
Union with or without Slavery as the people
therein may desire and make known through
their constituents.
Mr. Clay expressed his gratification at this
manifestation of a disposition on the part of
those who opposed the bill to present their
contra project, instead of objecting, and say
ing that because they are in the minority
they will make no proposition.
The Vice President stated the question up
on Mr. Chase’s amendment amending Mr.
Davis’s (of Miss.) amendment, permitting
the Territorial Legislatures to pass laws pro
tecting property ot every kind, which now
exists, or may hereafter be introduced, in the
Territories, conformably with tbe Constitu
tion and laws of the United States, so as to
declare said amendment shall not be con
structed so as to imply that Slavery exists,
or can be introduced in said Territories by
the said Constitution and laws.
-Mr. Douglass opposed both "the amend
ments upon the ground that they violated the
principle of non-intervention, declared in the
Niichoiwn letter: if either of these amend
ments were adopted, he did not see how those
who had heretofore assumed the position
stated in that letter could vote for the bill.
Mr. Downs said that if the interpretation of
the Nicholson letter given by Mr. Douglass
was the true one, it took away the whole
ground upon which the South supported it.
The amendment submitted by Mr. Chaae was
in effect the Wilmot Proviso.
Mr. Chase defended his amendment; it wa3
not the Wilmot Proviso, as had been stated
by several Senators, but really an explanation
of Mr. Davis’s amendment, designed to ren
der its terms definite, and not liable to diver
sity of interpretation, according to the section
in which interpreted.
Mr. Davis said his amendment was not
destined to carrv any implication as to what
species of property; there was very little dif
ference between deciding the rights of pro
perty, and protecting them when they exist.
In reply, Mr. Douglass said, that the
difference between that Senator and huuseli
was, simply, as to who were the people. The
Senator applied the term to the inhabitants
of the Territories, while he (Mr. Davis) ap
plied it to those inhabitants only, alter sover
eignty had been given them by Congress.
Mr. Douglass, in concluding a tew words
in reply, declared that if the question of
Slavery was touched in any way, manner or
shape in the bill, it could not pass the
Seriate.
After some further debate by Mr. Walker
and Jefferson Davis,
Mr. Butler defended the amendment sub
mitted by the latier; neither you nor the
Senator proposing it. declared that Slavery
exists in the Territories; or shall go there;
the Senator never said it should go there; he
did contend, however, and propose by hie
amendment, that if Slavery should go to the
Territories, or if it should prove already to
exist there, the slave owner may be protected
in his right to try the validity of fits title to
that properly under the Constitution and
laws. Mr. Butler said, he designed, at a
future time, to. express his views generally
upon the Bill, when he would take occasion
to say candidly, explicitly, and distinctly,
what he thought would satisfy him as a rep
resentative of one of the Southern States.
Mr. King expressed himself opposed to
Mr. Davis’ amendment, because it would
embarrass the Bill. In Teply to Mr. Doug
lass, he denounced that Senator’s remarks as
a Free Soil Wilmot Proviso speech, so fsr
as the argument went, because it contended
that Coogreas had all power over the subject
pf Slavery.
Mr. Douglass responded with considerable
warmth.
Mr. Webetet thought the amendment waa
very little moment or effect in any way
If he understood tbe object of its mover, that
object could be readily obtained by another
mode. He understood that the amendment
had it foundation in nothing but a disposi
tion to prevent tbe Legislatures of the Ter
ritories from passing any law perpetually ex
cluding Slavery therefrom. He n
amendment the other day ir the hands of the
Senator from Indiana, which would meet that
object. The bill declared that tbose Legtsla
tutes shall pass no law respecting Slavery.
The amendment to which be referred, de
clared that the Territorial Legislature shall
have no authority to pass laws establishing
or excluding Slavery. Thia was certainly a
municipal question, and there could be no
impropriety in adopting such an amendment
as he had suggested, although he must say,
that in his opinion, this whole class of amend
ments were unnecessary, considering the
actual state of things in the country to which
they were to be applied.
Mr. Hale was unwilling even by silence
to admit that the question before the Senate
was of practical indifference. We had grown
up from thirteen to thirty States, and the ex
perience of the past was that in every instance
in which new States had been admitted into
the Union without an express prohibition of
Slavery, no matter what theii latitude or
longitude, Slavery had gone into, and been
irrevocably established in those States. On
this subject he wanted no other guide than
the light of the past. This question, then,
was one of great practical importance—a
question ot the establishment or exclusion of
Slavery. No question had ever been agita
ted in Congress, since the Declaration of
Independence, involving SO Important and
lasting consequences as that now pending,
and it was a libel upon the intelligence of
the free States to tell them that it waa a
question of indifference.
Mr. Webster said it was, io his opinion,
no question at all of Slavery or no Slavery.
It was known to be his opinion that there
was no reasonable human probability that
Slavery would go to the Territories, and that
there was no substantial necessity doing any
thing, in establishing Territorial Govern
ments, in relation to its prohibition or exclu
sion, believing it, as he did, to be already
excluded by causes not under human control.
After some further debate, Mr. Cass again
explained and defended his Nicholson letter,
and after a few remarks in relation to the
policy of non-intervention, declared that he
should vote against both pending amend
ments, as well as against the original restric
tion contained in the bill upon the Territorial
Legislation respecting Slavery.
Without taking any question, half-past four
Senate adjourned.
The Nashville Convention.
The following resolutions have been adopt
ed by the Nashville Convention. It will be
seen that the Missouri Line is insisted upon;
a Southern political party recommended to
give its support to such party in the North as
will submit to its terms; and the 4th of June,
1851, fixed as the time for a Southern Con
vention to nominate candidates for the Pres
idency and Vice Presidency:
Resolved, That California is peculiarly
well adapted for slave labor, and that if the
tenure of slave property was by recognition
of this kind secured in that part of the coun
try South of 36 deg, 30 min. it would, in a
short time, form into one or more slavehold
ing States, to swell the number, and power
of llisse already in existence.
Resolved, That it too plain for argu
ment that the slave holding States would
not lose, and the non-holding greatly gain
by the surrender to the latter, of the half of
Texas: and that the payment to Texas of ten
millions as price, however it might minister
to ber distress for money, would be no com
pensation to them, and the more especially as
the most of the money would come out of
their own pockets.
Resolved. That the people of the slave
holding States, by becoming a unit as re
spects political or party organization, sep
arate from the people of the non-holding
States, would place themselves in a position
of great advantage in as least three particu
lars: First, to enable them to account to the
political party ot the North, by putting it in
their power to throw undivided might into the
scale of whichever party then showed the
best disposition to them m justice. Second,
it would enable then to turn to account the
potent sentiment of love for the Union cher
ished by the North, out of their desire to ter
minate the existence of the U/iion promptly,
and without any internal discord, whenever
the North came to disregard their right.—
Third, it would enable them, at the worst, to
defend themselves to the best advantage, and
therefore it would be, in the highest degree,
conservative of union, and of the best senti
ments of fraternity between the people of
the North and those of the South.
Resolved, therefore, That the people of
the South ought to drop old party distinct
ions in organization, and for the future let the
test of meiit in the different candidates for
office be this only, which of them is likely to
do the most good, friendly and frateranal part
by the South, and to this end the Conven
tions, both for the nominations of State of
ficers, President and Vice President, ought
hereafter to be held without reference to theii
past party relations.
Resolved, That we, therefore, invite a
convention of the slave holding States, on the
4th of June, for the purpose of determining
which among the various aspirants for the
Presidency and Vice Presidency ought to
receive the suffrages of the South.
Resolved, That unless the non-slave hold
ing States, at the next session of their re
spective Legislatures, repeal the laws which
they have passed, obstructing the recoveiy of
fugitive slaves, and also to take effectual step*
fur the practical observation by their citizens
of the constitutional stipulation for the sur
render of such slaves, the slave holding States
ought, without delay, to adopt measures of
retaliation and non-intercourse,
Resolved, That we have htt'e confidence
in the efficacy of any law which Congress may
pass to secure tne observation of this clause
of the Constitution, because public opinion at
the North is so much opposed to such laws
that it could not be enforced. We look chiefly
to the States themselves who are parties to
the stipulation for the observance; but any
laws passed by Congress which gave to the
fugitive a trial by jury in the Stale to which
he fled, would, as a remedy, be mere mock
er)'
Resolved, That in a case a majority of the
clear rights of the South pass any law which
should deprive her of the part of California
situated 36 deg. North, oi cut off from Tex
as any part of the territory line within the
boundary which she claims as her own, ot
interfere with slavery or the trade in the slave
district of Columbia, then this Convention, on
the—-Monday after the passage of such act,
should assemble at for tbe purpose of con
sidering the remedy to be adopted for re
dress of the wrongs thus perpetrated.
The Hutchinons.— A. circumstance has
come to our knowledge, in relation to the
Hutchinsona, which reflects so much credit
on them that we think it our duty to detail it.
Year* ago, when they were about to com
mence their career, they arrived at a neigh
boring city in a wagon with two hosaes.
They gave one or two concerts and failed.
Unable to leave the city, they were about to
sacrifice their horses to be enabled to return
home. A gentleman in the city persuaded
them to remain and give one mote concert,
making himself responsible for their debt.
Th» result was that they did well.
On a recent visit they found this gentle
man poor and tick, absolutely in want.—
After providing for hia immediate wants,
they feet him aaidefor his benefit the pro
ceeds of their first concert, which restored
comparative comfort to his home. They cei
tainly deserve tfaeii success.—„V. y. Exprtjt
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JUNE 13, 1850.
Tbs Nobth Stab is sometimes mm to friend*
who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
nay see fit to subscribe for it. Subscriptioas and
donationi for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglas*, Rochester,
N.Y.
9s*W irted—Several Tbatiuus Agists,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None new! apply
bat suck as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fbcd
ißicx Docolass, Rochester, N. Y.
Our English friends who have not paid
their subscription! to the North Star, fox the
year 1850, are requested to forward them, by
Poet Office Order, to Mrs. Henry Richard
son, 5, Summer hill Grove, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.— r. n.
Prejudice against Color.
Let qo one imsgine that we are about to
give undue prominence to this subject. Re
garding, as we do, the feeling named above
to be the greatest of all obstacles in the way
of the anti-slavery cause, we think there
is little danger of making the subject of it too
prominent. Tbe heartless apathy which pre
vails in this community on the subject of sla
very—the cold-blooded indifference with which
the wrongs of the perishing and heart-broken
slave are regarded—the contemptuous, slan
derous, and malicious manner in which the
names and characters of Abolitionists are
handled by the American pulpit and press
generally, may be traoed mainly to the malign
feeling which passes under the name of pre
judice against color. Every step in our ex
perience in this country since we commenced
our anti-slavery labors, has been marked by
facts demonstrative of what we have jus l
said. The day that we started on our first
anti-slavery journey to Nantucket, now nine
years ago, the steamer was detained at the
wharf in New Bedford two hours later than
the usual time of starting, in an attempt on
the part of the captain to compel the colored
passengers to separate from the white passen
gers, and to go on the forward deck of that
steamer; and during this time, the most sav
age feelings were evinced towards every col
ored man who asserted his right to enjoy
equal privileges with other passengers.—
Aside from the twenty months tghich we
spent, in England, (where color is no crime,
and where a man’s fitness for respectable so
ciety is measured by his moral and intellectual
worth,) we do not remember to have made a
single anti-slavery tour in any direction in
this country, when we have not been assailed
by this mean spirit of caster A feeling so
universal aud so powerful for enil, cannot well
be 100 much commented upon. We haws
used the term prejudice against color 1© de
signate the feeling to which we allude, nm
because it expresses correctly what that feel
ing is, but simply because that innocent term
is usually employed for that purpose.
Properly speaking, prejudice against color
does not exist in this country. The feeling
(or whatever it is) which we call prejudice
is no less than a murderous hell-bom hatred
of every virtue which may adorn the char
acter of a black man. It is not the black man’s
color which makes him the object of biutal
treatment. When he is drunken, idle,ignor
ant and vicious, Black Bill” is a source ol
amusement: he is called a good-natured fel
low he is the first to touch his hat to the
stranger approaching the hotel, and offer his
service in holding his horse, or blacking his
boots. The white gentleman tells the land
lord to give Bill something to drink
and actually drinks with Bill” himself!—
While poor black Bill” will minister to the
pride, vanity and laziness of white American
gentlemen while he consents to play the
buffoon for their sport, he will share their re
gard. BuUet him cease to be what we have
described him to be— let him shake off ihe
filthy rags that cover him—let him abandon
drunkenness for sobriety, industry for indo
lence, ignorance fox intelligence, and give up
his menial occupation for respectable employ
ment—let him quit the hotel and go to the
ehurch, and assume there the rights and pri
vileges of one for whom the Son of God died,
and he will be pursued with the fiercest ha
tred. His name will be cast out as evil; and
his life will be embittered with all the venom
which hate and malice can generate. Thou
sands of colored men can bear witness to the
truth of this representation. While we are
servants, we are never offensive to the whites,
or marks of popular displeasure. We have
been often dragged or driven from the tables
of hotels where colored men were officiating
acceptably as waiters; and from steamboat
cabffis where twenty or thirty colored men in
light jackets and white aprons were frisking
about as servants among the whites in every
direction. On the very day we were brutally
assaulted in New York lor riding down
Broadway in company with ladies, we saw
several white ladies riding with black servants.
These servants were well-dressed, proud
looking men, evidently living on the fat of tbe
land—yet they were servants. They rode
not for their own, but for the pleasure and
convenience of white persons. They were
not in those carriages ss friends or equals.—
They were there ss appendages; they consti
tuted s part of tbe magnificent equipages.—
They were there as the fine black horses
which they drove were there—to minister to
the pride and splendor of their employers.
As they passed down Broadway, they were
observed with admiration by the multitude;
and even tbe poor wretches who assaulted us
might have said in their hearts, as they
looked upon such splendor, “We would do
so 100 if we could.” We repeat, then, that
color is not the cause of our persecution; that
is, it it not our color which makes our prox
imity io white men disagreeable. The evil
lies deeper than prejudice against color. It
is, ss we have said, an intense hatred of the
colored man when he is distinguished for any
ennobling qualities of head or heart. If the
feeling which persecutes os were prejudice
against color, the colored servant would be
as obnoxious as tbe colored gentleman, for the
color is the same in both cases; and being the
same in both cases, it would produce the same
result in both esses.
We are then a persecuted people; not be
cause we are colored but simply because that
color has for a series of yean been coupled in
(he ‘public mind with the degradation of sla
very and servitude. In these conditions, we
are thought to be in oar place; and to aspire
to anything above them, is to contradict tbe
established vkjw* of the community—to get
out of our sphere, and commit the provoking
sin of impudmtt- Just here is our sin we
have been tvsbre; we have passed through
all the grsdseef servitude, and have, under
God, secured ofe freedom; sod if we have be
come the apedsi object of attack, it is because
we speak and t|l among our fellow-men with
out the slight* regard to their ot our own
complexion;—m id further, because we elaim
and exercise tl e right to associate with just
such person* ai aie willing to associate with
us, and who ai l agreeable to our tastes, and
suited to our ns ml and intellectual tendencies,
without refaneace to the color of their skin,
and withourgivisg ourselves the slightest
trouble to iaquiici whether the world are
pleased or 4psplea*ed by our conduct. We
believe in hojpao equality; that character, not
color, should: be the criterion by which to
choose associates; and we pity the pride of
the poor dust and ashes which would
erect any oihtr standard of social fellowship.
This doctrine of human equality is the bit.
terest yet taight by the abolitionists. It is
swallowed wah more difficulty than all the
other points of the ami-slavery creed put to
gether. What makes a negro equal to a
white men Nb, we wfi| neter consent to
ihat! No, ibat wont do!” But stop a
moment; don't JffMt a Mgdn lreep cool.
What is a wttnßSm that youdo so revolt at
tbe idea of making a negro equal with him
Who made bin Is he an angel or a man I
"A man.” Jery well, he is a man, and
nothing but t man—possessing the same
weaknesses, liable to the same diseases, and
under the sanm necessities to which a black
man is "subject. Wherein does the whiteman
differ from the black? Why, one is white
and the other is black. Well, what of that!
Does the sun shine more brilliantly upon the
one than it does upon the other Is nature
more lavish with her gifts toward the one
than toward the other? Do earth, sea and air
yield their suited treasures to the one more
readily than to the other In a word, “have
we not all one Father Why then do you
revolt at that equality which God and nature
instituted?
The very apprehension which the American
people betray od this point, is proof of the fit
ness of treating all men equally. The fact
that they fear an acknowledgment of dur
1 equality, shows that thw see a fitness in such
i an acknowledgment. Why are they not ap
prehensive lent the borsfc should be placed on
an equality with man? Simply because the
hors#is not a man; and no amount of reason
ing can coavince the world, against its com
mon sen*!, that ihe horse is anything else
UMpa horse. So here all can repose without
ijfecr. Bui not so with (he negro. He stands
f erect.,Upon his brow he bears the seal of manj
hood, from the hand of the living God. Adopt
any mode of reasoning you please with re
spect to him, he is a man, possessing an im
mortal soul, illuminated by intellect, capable
of heavenly aspirations, and in all things per
taining to manhood, he is at once self-evi
dently a matt, and therefore entitled to all the
rights and privileges which belong to human
nature.—f. d.
i Colonization—Free Colored People, and
the New York Tribune.
We shall now, briefly conclude the examin
ation we somntenced last week of the Coloni
zation doctrines recently put forth by the New
York Tribune. Tbe reader will find the ar
i tide containing Mr. Greeley's views, on the
third page of list week’s North Star. In that
article, he institutes a comparison of the free
blscks and (he Mormons; making the latter
to be more talumniated, traduced and perse
cuted, than the free blacks; and he points us,
for an example, to what these plundered Mor
mons have sheeted in the last three years.—
So far as the comparison will have the effect
to whip our people into more activity, and
greater enterprise than they have hitherto ex
hibited, in that proportion we may rejoice
that it has been written; —but to declare that
the Mormon*, or any other white people in
this country, are more persecuted and tra
duced than the free slacks, (as we ate
called by the Tribune,) is to utter that which
js contrary to what eveiy one has the means
of knowing to be the facts in the case.
It was but the other day that we heard of a
circumstance that very aptly illustrates the
relative position of the white and colored
people of this country. A white man had
been declared to have negro blood in his veins.
He at once brought an action against his ac
cuser, and laid his damages at ten thousand
dollars
But suppose we should adopt the example
of the Mormons, and go out into the wilder
ness, and do just what they have done, what
assurance, can Mr. Greeley give us that the
same treatment would be extended to us by
this government, that has been extended to
the Mormons? None whatever. He knows,
or ought to know, that while slavery is per
mitted in this country, colored men will be
hated and despised by their enslavers through
out the world'. We are told to go to the
West coast of Africa—to strike out a bold
path of danger, duty and self-sacrifice, as a
means of winning the world’s respect, and
the admiration of posterity This is a very
grand flourish. What has the United States
done for these who have already gone there?
She has done nothing—worse than nothing.
While England and Faance have both ac
knowledged the Liberian Republic, and have
extended to her the right hand of commercial
fellowship, the Republic from whose shores
that people were driven by oppression, have
yet to perform this simplest act of justice.
What has our Government done in the
Case of Haiti? It has scouted, with the
most provoking contempt, any act, looking to
a welcome of the Biack Republic into tbe
sisterhood of nations, until at length, that
Republic, disgusted with the very name of
Republicanism, abandoned all show of it;
and put on the robes of Imperialism, finding
as she has found, far more justice, honor,
sod magnanimity among European despots,
than she has been able to find among Ameri
can Democrats. It makes no difference Mr.
Greeley, where the black man rosy pitch his
tent—whether on this, or on the other sid«
of the Atlantic, tho people of this country
will osver do him justice, .while they con
tinue to enslave his race. Between sixty and
•evenly colored men have embarked from the
single point of New Bedford to California;
and large numbers have gone from Boetoo/
New York, and other Northern and Atlantic'
pons. They have struck oat a path of
“danger,aiMi self-sacrifice.** A largeportion of
them will probably, return to this oeantry
with abundance of Gold; but, who does not
know that the meanest, and laziest white
man in the community may move about the
country with greater freedom from iaault and
abuse, than can the wealthiest, and most re
spectable of those who return from this fid
of‘‘danger and self-sacrifice?’*
While Slavery continues to exist, the
co’ored man will continue to be despised in
this land, nor will he escape being so des
pised by leasing his brethren in the land of
bondage, to the inheritance of whipe and
chains, and selfishly seeking a place of rest
for himself. To our apprehonsioo, it is far
more noble on the part of the free colored
people to remain here, struggling agaiust the
adverse winds of prejudice, and Slavery,
than, selfishly to quit the country with a view
to bettering tbeir own condition.
Let Mr. Greeley com plain aa much as be
may, of our,determination to /emain here. It
shall go hard with us, before we shall consent
to leave these shores while three millions of
our countrymen are in chains. We me re
solved to fell or flourish with them.—d.
A Doubtful Compliment.
8. R. Ward, speaks of our remarks at the
recent Anniversary of the American Anti-
Slavery Society as follows:
“After raving and roaring for a while, Mr.
Douglass acquittedJrimself before them, and
against them, as thOTecenPpapers -represent,
and as the indecent papers misrepresent.”
We are entirely unconscious of having ra
ved or roared on the occasion referred to;
but will not insist upon being judge in our
own case, and therefore must allow Mr. Ward
to have it all his own way.
In the same letter, Mr W ard says of his
meeting held in St. Mary’s Street Church
Philadelphia:
“Had not the getters-up of this meeting,
in their handbills, declaied that tbs body of
the house would be reserved for white per
sons, an arrangement that was not, could not
be carried out, because “unfit to be made,”
it would have had no other defect than the
first speech”
Now, Mr. Ward must Pardon us. But
we do think that this seeming reproof of the
“getters up” of the meeting in question is
about as equivocal as the singular compli
ment to which we have just alluded. The
former may be easily traced to an accidental
grammatical error; but we fear that the latter
must be set down to a cause far less credita
ble to its author. The men who got up the
meeting at St. Mary’s Street Church, were
guilty of t very disgraceful piece of truck
ling to the negro-hating, pro-slavery spirit of
Philadelphia. They very discreditably, gra
tuitously and contemptibly, yielded themselves
the menial servants of the scornful spirit of
caste, and this too at an anti-slavery meeting.
Mr. Ward very gently calls this a “defect
and that defect he deems to be about equal
to his own speech f! The cringing ser
viles who sent forth the proscriptive hand-bill
will easily pardon Mr. Ward for this very
equivocal rebuke; especially as he so far
spared their feelings, and forgot his duty to
rebuke them publicly when he had them be
fore him at the meeting, where the delect
was Wore his eyes. You are seen, Samuel
Ringold Ward.—r. d.
Celebration of West India Emancipation.
It will be seen by the following, which we
from the Impartial Citizen, that our
friends are not disposed to abandon the time
honored custom of celebrating West India
Emancipation. A strong array of speakers
are secureJ, and we have no doubt that the
occasion will be a grand one. r. d.
At a meeting of the citizens of Elmira,
held on the last Monday in April, Mr. Wil
liam Tann, Chairman, and D. W. Moslen,
Secretary, it was, on motion,
Resolved, That we will celebrate the first
day of August next, the Anniversary of West
India Emancipation, to the fullest extent of
our power.
On motion, the following persons were ap
pointed Marshals of the day:
Hiram Washington, Elmira.
C. P. Lucas, Geneva.
E. L. Platt, Bath.
J. W. Jones, Elmira.
The following speakers have been secured
for the occasion, viz:
S. R. Ward, Syracuse.
H. H. Garnet, Geneva.
J. W. Loguen, Syracuse.
Charles L. Rimond.
Wm. TANN, Chairman*
David W. Molsen, Sec’y.
African Colonization.
The following letter from Mr. V&shon
should have been published in our last num
ber, but was overlooked. Our friend Vashon
will pardon the delay.—r. d.
Frederick Douglass :—Sir: I was much
pained at heart, to learn through the North
Star of May 3d, that our colored brethren
in St. Louis have been holding a mass meet
ing on the subject of African Colonization,
and that the said meeting was eloquently ad
dressed by colored Americans. This is a sad
slate of affairs; but you will not let auch op
position, I hope, cause your hands to hang
down, or retard your efforts; but rather let
all auch pre-slavery actions be means for you
to nerve your arm, and increase youi fiimneas
sad argument—your fixed determination, in
writing, printing and pleading the cause of
the poor slave, and the Elevation of the free
colored man, and telling, in burning words,
to this land of professing Christians, and to
the world, the sin of slavery, and that you
may never cease pouting floods of living light
m the mind and conscience of the oppressor,
till you change their guilty prejudices, feel
ings sad actions towards us as men and citi
zens of the United States, And I do hope
that you will advise snd urge our fellow
jountrymen to avoid all participation in any
meeting of the Colonization Society, as it is
anti-Christian in its actions, and I have ever
relieved that Slavery and Colonization are
'win-sisters, and that the main desire of the
friends of Colonization is, to drain the free
rolored people out of these United States, so
hat the chair of slavery may be riveted more
ightly upon its victims; and it is very clear
hat Colonization has long been fostered and
■attained by the murderous spirit of slavery
tnd prejudice. i
Such being the character of the Society, it
its neither the confidence nor the respect of
he free ooloted people; and I think it the I
luty of every colored mao to despise the name
if the Colonization Society; because that
Society has published to the world s libel on
the name and character of my people, by say
ing that we were a nuisance, degraded, and
vicious, Ac.
In conclnsiou: This is the land where we
all drew our first breath—where we have
grown up to strength and manhood. Hers
we have cantracted the most sacred engage
ments, the dearest relations of life. Here we
have found the companions of oar childhood,
the friends of our yoatb, the gentle partners
of oar lives. Here are the haunts of oar in
fancy, the scenes of every endearing hour. In
a word, this is our own nativc land and
we love our country—we love oar fellow
citizens and we consider every colored man
who allows himself to be colonized in Africa,
is an enemy to the slave, and a traitor to the
anti-slavery cause. Yours, Ac.,
J. B. VASHON.
Petebboro, June 1, 1850.
Frederick Doublers My outraged and
affltcted Brother:—! have just read, in the
last Norths Star, the article io which you in
form your readers of the insults, and violence,
and threats of assassination, which you en
countered in your recent visit to New York,
j This article stirs the lowest depths of my
sympathy and love. I sympathized with you
and loved you before, more now.
AH this cruel and outrageous treatment you
suffer, because ycu are a colored man or,
rather because, nothwithatanding you arc a
coloredjman, you presume to demean yourself
as a man, and to let your lips and pen give
expression to those rare powers with which
you are endowed. Were you ignorant and
vile, you might go to New York or elsewhere
evety month, without being molested; but,
being intelligent, sod eloquent, and refined,
and high-aouled, you are a shining mark that
cannot escape the notice and cannot fail to
provoke the jealousy and wrath of a people
educated to depise and hate the colored race.
It will be long, my dear brother, before
you will be able to travel in America unin
sulted and unharmed. So long as the con
ventional and sham Christianity, which builds
negro-pews, and which qualifies and limits
social rights by complexion, shall bear sway
in this land, so long you will be exposed to
insults and injuries. It is this spurious Chris
tianity which subjects you to discomforts and
insults, and exposes you to violence and mur
der. It is this which educates and lets loose
the mob upon you. It is this which moulds
the Websters and Dickinsons of the Senate,
and the Morses of the New York Observer,
and the Bennets of the New York Herald
and which makes expediency, instead of prin
ciple, the governing motive of them all.—
This spurious Christianity is indeed a murdei*
ous and a develish thing. Would that all its
i churches—but that they would be rebuilt—
might be burnt up, and that all its ministers
I might be huddled together where they could
repent and do no harm.
A negro-pew church, a church of Christ!
What a misnomer I would not honor it so
far as to call it the church of the Devil. The
Devil is not so unreasonable—l was about to
say, not So unjust—as to classify persons by
the color of their skin. Even the Devil is
willing to leave to its operation the great law,
that character assigns to every man his place.
But think not, my dear Douglass, that it is
you colored men alone who suffer from this
insane and rampant prejudice. The wound
it inflicts on you, it inflicts on us who spmpa
thize with you, and who have identified our
selves and made ourselves colored men with
I you. In your sufferings, we suffer. In your
afflictions, we are afflicted. Did I never tell
you, that one reason I so seldom leave my
house is that, because of my sympathy with
my colored brethren, I am made so unhappy
abroad I I look around for them in vain.—
They are not there to share with me in ray
comforts and privileges. It is true that lam
not thus tried in the churches I atfflW when
from home, since I attend no negro-hating
churches. For some fifteen years, I have
shunned such churches, as I would a pest
house. But when visiting, 1
cannot always steer clear oAm places and
occasions where my is de
spised, and hated, and crucified. 1 often find
myself in public houses and private houses,
in steamboats, and cars, and omnibuses; in
gatherings and circles, where I know my poor
colored brother (if allowed at all) is not al
lowed to be as the equal of the white man.—
And how can I be happy in such circum
stances! How can I enjoy that in which
my equal brother is permitted no participation?
Even the attempt to enjoy it, 1 feel to be
traitorous to him; and if enjoyment begin,
the rising of such a feeling arrests and with
er* it. In such circumstances, lam wont to
remember that, by reason of the interference
and remonstrance of his sympathy with oth
ers, David had not the heart to slake his
raging thirst with the water offered him.
Despair not, however, my dear brother.—
All will be made right, and iri due time. The
religion of Jesus—the religion of the Bible—
that will prevail and when it does prevail,
it will make all right. For it is not a slavery
or casts religion; but a religion of lcve, and
freedom, and equality. You and I shall not
live to see its pievalence. But it is our pri
vilege to labor for it, and to live and die in the
assurance that Jesus shall yet reigd in this
sin-crazed and sin-ruined world and that He
shall yet shew who is the blessed and only
potentate, the King of Kings, and Lord of
Lords.”
With great regard,
Your friend and brother,
GERRIT SMITH.
American leape of Colored La bo ten.
A numbet of colored men who have long
made the beat interests of their race in the
United Slates their study and effort, being in
New York, attending the Anniversary, and
wishing to make the best improvement of the
occasion, assembled together in the Lecture
Room of Zion’s chureh, corner of Leonard
and Church streets, and organized and opened
their meeting in the usual way. Rev, S. R.
Ward, of New York, was appointed Presi
dent, and Henry Bibb, of Michigan, Secre
tary. An interchange of views was then had
on the present aspect of their affairs in the
United States, and of what is best to be done
in the present crisis.
The first conclusion at rived at was, that
union and conckkt of action is indispensa
ble to speedy success to our efforts for im
provement and elevation.
The second conclusion was, that-our pkj
deal and pecuniary improvement has not kept
pace with oar other improvements, and at
present demands our serious attention. They
therefore agteed to adopt for themselves the
following, proposing to practice upon and he
governed by them in their future operations,
and in union and concert; to recomownc the
same to the government and practice of others;
-Rnrf. It is manifest that one very great
evil now suffered by the t tee colored people of
the United States, is the want of money.
9. Money can he obtained by labor.
3. All colored men should engage in the
most profitable labor, provided it be honorable.
4. That labor is most profitable which is
and can be most and beet assisted.
5. Assistance of labor is from animals and
machinery—capital.
6. Any man who has learned a useful trade
of any kind, and has tbe talent for conducting
it on his own account, ought so to conduct it;
because all the nett profits would then be his,
and he would then have a fair opportunity of
assisting his brethren by employing them ae
apprentices and journeymen. But if he has
not the means of setting up in trade on his
own account, then, if in is a man of integrity,
he ought to be furnished with the means.
7. Hence, a fund should be established in
every community, for the purpose of loaning
suras of money to colored men of integrity,
to assist them to go into business on their
own acoouni, or in such way as they may find
most convenient and profitable.
8. We recommend skillful, honorable, pro
fitable labor to the free colored men of the
United States, not merely because it is pro
ductive ot wealth, and si) iu accompanying
advantages; but because it is indispensable to
that developement and perfection, both of body
and mind, which we so much need, and which
many of us so much desire.
9. The' free colored men of the Uuiied
Slates are already impressed with the impor
tance of educating their rising youth in the
sciences. This we recommend as highly favor
able to their advancement and elevation; but
science without a trade or some way of turn
ing it to useful account, loses more than half
its value. We therefore recommend that they
be just as careful to educate their youth in the
Arts of Agriculture, Manufacture and Com
merce, as in the Sciences.
10. We recommend the attainment of Learn
ing and lliches, because they are capable of
procuring for us much personal comfort, and
inspiring us with respect for ourselves, and
for each othet, and of gaining for us the re
spect of men generally. Bui we should have
a still higher aim than the respect and fa
vour of men: we should practice those virtues
and seek that purity and goodness of heart
which will in the end procure fur us the fa
vor of God.
The above propositions having been ad
opted, with one dissenting voice, the meeting
adjourned until the afternoon at half-past 3
o’clock, having previously appointed a com
mittee to report a plan of organixation.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The committee appointed, reported the fol
lowing plan of organization, (with the ex
ception of the last clause of the sth section,
which was added on motion of Mr. Geo. T.
Downing of New York.)
First,4F hat the Editors present, and all
friendly, be requested to publish repeatedly,
the propositions adopted by this meeting.
3. That th«r« b« Executive Committee,
whose office shall be in the City of New York,
the members of which, residing in sard City
shall be a quorum for the transaction of busi
ness for the Association generally, and said
City in particular: all other Committees or
.Associations for the same object, shall cor
respond with said Executive Committee st
least once a month: and said Committee,shall
consist of twenty-three members.
3. That the details of carrying out the
work, be left to the colored communities*in
the various pans of the country, who are
hereby respectfully recommended to form as
sociations in cooperation with the Execu
tive Committee.
4. Every Association, or Committee, when
formed, shall publish its proceedings in our
papers, (and pay for the same) and also in
one local paper.
5. That an Industrial Fair shall be held in
New York City in the second week in May,
1859; of the proceeds of which, 70 per cent,
shall be given to the producers, and 30 per
cent shall be devoted to carrying out the
views of this organization: and that colored
mechanics, artizans and agriculturalists be
ernestly requested to exhibit at the several
national Fairs, specimens of their Skill and
Industry.
6. That an Agent shall be employed by
the Executive Committee, to lay these views
before the Colored People of the United
States.
The above propositions having been adopt
ed, the following gentlemen were elected of
ficers for the the ensuing year.
S. R. WARD, President.
rvGSSU
Executive Committee.
William S. Powell, New York.
Lewis H. Putnam,
Geo. T. Downing,
Henry M. Wilson,
Edward V. Clark,
William J. Wilson,
Robert Hamilton,
Stephen Myers,
Charles L. Reason,
William H. Topp,
James M’Cune Smith,
Charles B. Ray,
Lewis Woodson, Pennsylvania,
lames Needham,
Robert Forten,
Charles L. Remond, Massachusetts.
William C. Nell,
Robert Morris,
Henry Bibb, Michigan,
Robert Banks,
SAMUEL R. WARD, P.ea’t-
Henry Bibs, Sec’y.
The following is a good phrase, deserptiye
of an energetie character. ‘Cromwell did
not wait to strike until tbe iron was hot, but
made it hot by striking.
DiogenesT peing once asked tbe bite o
which beest was worst, answered: “If you
mean of wild beasts, tis tha slanderer if tame,
the/IWWrvr.”
ley To hod tbe value of a friend—
Aak him to put bto name to a bill,American Slavery.
On Wednesday evening last a meeting w*
held at the Brad mead-room r, ter the purpoet
of hearing a lecture on American Slavery
from Mr. Win. Wells Brown, a fugtbvt
slave. A good deal of interest was excited
in consequence of the lecturer being a man o
color, and one of the delegates from Ameri
ca to the late Peace Congress, at Faria. Tht
large room was completely crammed.
On the motion of J. Shoard, Esq., tht
chair was taken by Edward Thomas, Esq.
who said they weie met that evening to heai
the statements of Mr. Brown, with respeci
to slavery in America. In the fifteen south
ern states of that country there were no lest
than 3,000,000 slaves, but the fifteen north
ern states were free. Mr. Brown would not
be able to give a perfect statement in one
evening, and it was accordingly proposed
that he should devote two nights to that pur
pose. If some of the South Carolina gentle
men were present, they would no doubt tell
him (Mr. Thomas) that he was introducing
a thief. Well, he admitted Mi. Btown waa
a thief, for he had stolen—hit own body.
(Laughter and applause.)
Mr. Brown, on coming forward, was re
ceived with the greatest enthusiasm. He said
he piesutned they had assembled in that
room upon former occasions, and for various
purposes; but he did not believe they had
ever been convened for a higher purpose
than the one which brought them together
that evening. (Applause.) The cause ol
freedom was dear to every one; and the tight
of man to liberty, the right of a human being
to possess his own body, and to have the
value of his own labor—was a self-evident
proposition. Man brings into the world with
him a right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness. He was there that evening as
the advocate and representative of three
millions of Americans, who had not the privi
lege of representing themselves, —persons
with whom he was identified by the siripes
which he carried on his own person, by
complexion and by suffering —by everything
which could bind man to his fellow-man. The
institution of slavery had within itself the
elements of destruction, —it was an institution
disliked by all friends of freedom and religi
ous liberty. (Hear, hear.) But slavery in
America was lawful. The constitution ol
the United States threw around the slave
owner its protection; and the slave-owner,
armed with the law, and approved and up
held by the constitution, reigned oyer those
unfortunate beings who were in his power.
The chairman had justly said they had in
America fifteen free states and fifteen slave
states, or at least fifteen states where slaves
could not be considered or held to be goods
and chattels. But there was not a foot of
soil in the States where he, or any other
fugitive slave, could stand, protected by law;
and where the slave-holder could not pursue
him, capture him, and bting him back into
interminable bondage. That was the position
of the American Government at the present
time. And what had been the first and ab
sorbing question before the American con
gress during the present session l The ques
tion of slavery. That question had taken the
precedence of all other subjects. The slave
holders, not satisfied with the privilege of
pursuing a slave into any territory—not satis
fied with imposing a fine of 100 on any
person for aiding or feeding an escaped slave
—had now a proposition before the American
Congress, to add to the number of officers for
the return of fugitive Slaves, to have 4,000
or 5,000 judges, or postmasters, before whom
captured slaves could be brought; and these
judges were to be appointed by a Slave
holding President, who had upveegds of 300
slaves working on his cane plantations. But
there was another proposition —to add .£2OO
more to the penalty for aiding or feeding a
slave, while attempting to make hts escape
from bondage. (Shame.) W bile these
questions were being agitated in America,
the slave holders had resolved to introduce
slavery into Mexico; and for that purpose had
dragged up Henry Clay to advocate the pro
ject. Not only had they dragged up Henry
Clay from the verge of the grave, but a Chris
tian man from a free state —one of the most
noble of the sous of Massachusetts-had
made a speech in congress, and declared that
he would not only go for that measure, but
that he would vote for the proposition that
would give to the slaveholder double advan
tagea in recapturing hts slaves. He referred
to Daniel Webster, and he (the speaker)
was sure that that name would be held up to
posterity, as a name to be execra'ed, for
bending his supple knee to the power of the
slaveholders. (Cheer.) That was the posi
tion of slavery before the American congress.
In travelling through England he found the
people had a very imperfect idea of what
slavery was in the United State. Not only
was slavery sanctioned in America, by the
countenance of the whole land, but it was
carried on between the several Stales. They
had slave marts and slave markets in every
town in the slaveholdtng States, and the
greatest mart in the union was at the city of
Washington, the capital of the country.
(Shame.) Tt.e Americans, who professed
to be friends of freedom—who professed to
have sympathies with other nations while
struggling for freedom—who were welcom
ing Hungarian and other brave men—were,
at the same time, enslaving one-sixth of their
own countrymen! The slave was a chattel
as defined by the laws of the country —a
thing—a piece of property. He had no
right to hts labor, no right to his family, no
light to say anything concerning hts welfare
or existence, in fact, he occupied the same
position as the hound of the American slave
holder, and was regarded as the horse or ox
is regarded in this country (Shame.) It
was not hts purpose to show them that the
slaves wer3 not well fed or well clad—that
had nothing to do with the question. (Hear,
hear.) He did not come to wage war with
the masters for not feeding or clothing their
slaves; but the right of the Blavc to libeity
was the question. (Cheers.) He would not
discuss the question there, whether the Ame
rican slave had a right to be free, for the
British people were satisfied on that point,
and had given prima facie evidence of it, in
the emancipation of their West India slaves,
and in their efforts'lo abolish the odious sys
tem. It was not a ques ion whether the
•lave had enough to eat or wear. Suppose
a man gvae him food and clothing, what
was that to him so long as he knew that
roan had the power to put him upon the
auction block, and sell him to the highest
bidder—to tear the husband from the wife,
and the wife from the husband. What com
pensation was there for that 1 They would
find in this country that, if there were men
who conceded the point, and who brought
forward the argument that a slave ought to
be satisfied with enough for his bodily wants,
—such men we e the first to oppress the
people of this country, and say they ought to
be satisfied with the rights they have. (Loud
Cheers.) He would now, for a moment,
notice the condition of the slave in America.
Why had the Americans a law making it
penal for as many as five slave to be fuund
talking on the highway? Because the slave
holders feared insurrections. \V hy had they
a law making it a penally of from £'so to
£‘loo for teaching a slave to read 1 Simply
because they could not keep them in their
present position if they wete educated.
(Cheers.) Why had they law making it a
penalty of death to the slave who should strike
his master. Because all of these odious
Jaws tended to keep the slaves where they
were. The system of slavery was founded
upon ignorance ami degradation,—it must he
kept where it is in order to be kept at all.
'lt was the remark of an American Statesman
that education was the lever which would
turn slavery upside down. Probably some
would ask whether those laws were enforc
ed. He would observe that probably some
of them were not. But the law regardiog
education was enforced to its utmost extent,
ao4 the law regstdiog the atrikingoi the mas
ter was enforced, because it was said slaves
goulioot he kept dpwo without enforcing
such laws. If a slave stiuck his master, hii
master had to inform against him, eo Tha
other slaves might learn not to follow tb<
example. As an additional inducement fo
masters to deliver their slaves up to the law
in the stale of Mississippi the master war
compensated for any slave that might be exe
cuted. Every freeman in tbit State war
taxed to pay the master for that slave. That,
of coutsc, was a very good method of getting
rid of old and useless slaves—'o give them
up when the masters knew they would be
remunerated for them. The slaves in Ameri
ca could not worship God according to the
dictates of their conscience. The slave ol
America could not hold a public meeting; bul
he had had a warm reception from the peo
ple of this country, and the warmest recep
tion he had found was from those hearts that
beat under the fustian jacket. (Hear, hear,
and cheers.) But the question of human
slavery was one that went beyond every other
evil that they could think of. It unmanned
the man, because it placed him in a position
where he was not a man; it placed him where
he could not think for himself, and act for
himself—where he was not considered capa
ble of acting or tkinking at all, except at
the will of another. For twenty years he
(Mr. Wells) was a slave on the plantations
of the Ameiican nlaveholders. During that
twenty yeais he had no right to think for
himself, and when he did think for himself
he always found he was running away with
himself. (Laughter.) The institution of
slavery had corrupted every other institution.
The institution of religion and the principles
of Christianity had been set at naught in the
United States; and the religious denomina
tions, to a greater or le*e extent, were filled
by individuals either slaveholders or connec
ted with slaveholders, by relationship or
otherwise. And all this helps to sustain the
odious system in that country. The Ameri
can institutions are thrown around the insti
tutions of slavery; political, social, and com
mercial institution were thrown around the
system, and combined to keep it were it was
at the present time. But there was one
spot of soil in'America that afforded shelter
and asylum for the poor bondsman who made
his escape from slavery: he referred to the
Canadas. (Cheers.) And if he felt reason
to rejoice at anything, it was at the fact that
the English people had yet a hold u pon a
portion of the American Continent where
the fugitive slave found an asylum, and was
protected by law. (Loud cheers.) That fact,
and what the English people had done for
the cause of freedom, had endeared them to
every slave in the United States of America.
(Hear hear.) Mr. Wells Brown then went
into details, explaining, at some length, the
law in different States; and giving some very
interesting statements of several escapes fiom
slavery. He then referred to the particulars
of his own escape, recounting the perils he
underwent; and concluded by thanking those
present for the kindness with which they had
received him. He hoped there would be a
public expression of opinion in this country,
for the Americans paid great defereuce to
anything that came from England. (Mr.
Wells sat.down amidst several rounds of
applause.)
At the conclusion of Mr. Brown’s address,
Mr. liussom moved that a tea meeting should
take place in that room on Tuesday next
the proceeds to be given to Mr. Brown.
Dr. J. Cash Neild seconded the motion.
He trusted that it would reach the ears of the
slaveholders in the United States, that they
might see that in this country difference of
color made no distinction as regarded our no
tions of respectability.
The motion was ad opted amid rapturous
applause.
Mr. Brown then sang two anti-slavery
songs, and a vote of thanks to the Chairman
terminated the proceedings.
The Horrors of the Slave Trade in Wash
ington City—Fiendish Assault upon a
Female
The Washington correspondent of the True
Democrat gives the following descrip.ion of a
scene in the capitol of the Republic. How
Webster’s “retainers” must rejoice in an
ticipation of their future work as slave*
catchers, should Mason's bill pass. The
letter is dated May 22d:
“A short distance from my residence liv
ed a very honest and industrious colored wo
man, with some half dozen children. This
women was employed as a cook by a family
near the capitol. By her industry and good
deportment, she had gained the esteem of all
who knew her, and, though a slave, she was
permitted to apply a portion of her wages to
the support of her family, and was making
efiorls to purchase her freedom.
As I wa9 passing down the Avenue yester
day, I saw, near the railroad depot, a crowd
of people gathered around two ruffian fellows
who hed this colored woman in their custody,
bound hand and foot. She could not stand
upon her feet, her hands were tied behind
her, and she was moaning as though in great
anguish, and, in broken sobs, beseeching the
bystanders to protect het. Blood was run
ning frofusely from a frightful wound in her
head, and with ruthless hands she was rudely
thrust into a hack, and, under the guardian
ship of her miscreant captors, was hurried off
to William’s slave pen.
Upon, inquiry, 1 learned that while en
gaged in her usual vocations, a constable
laid hands upon her, and ordered her to follow
him to the slave pen. Had a thunderbolt
crushed her to the earth, she could not have
been more shocked than at this summons.
She reluctantly obeyed. Her step*, how
ever, were not sufficiently rapid to suit the
convenience of the fellow who attended her,
and laying hold of her with considerable vio
lence, he attempted to force her on faster.
But he was balked in his intentions, for she
refused to go at all, unless he kept his hands
off from her.
“By God!” says the constable, “I’ll see
if you won’t go;” and with that he attempt
ed to carry his threat into execution. But he
had no sooner commenced his desperate work,
titan he found himself sprawling upon his
back, and the woman standing over him in a
menacing attitude, and resolutely informing
him that she would not b c.''dragged over to
the pen’ 1 by him—she would “r/ie first.”
She would “go peaceably if he would keep
his hands off her, and not otherwise.”
The fellow was allowed to get up, when
he again undertook the driving process, but
he could not move her, and called lustily up
on the numerous spectators that had gather
ed round for help. But not a man moved, al
though he threatened, raved and swore, as an
officer, to arrest them. A brother constable,
however, Boon came to the scene of action,
and to his res:ue. But she was too much
for the two together, and handled them both
as though they were mere infants in her
grasp.
Having worried them both out, (declaring
all the while, however, that she would go
peaceably if they would keep their hands off,)
one of the miscreants raised a heavy cane,
and with a furious and well-directed blow,
felled her senseless tn the earth, and while in
that state they bound her, and, in her torn
•nd bloody garments, followed by the execra
tions and curses of the multitude, hurried her
off to the head quarters of these land pirates,
there to die, or await her shipment to the
Southern market.
Her little children, the while, wete at
home. They knew nought of the capture
and treatment of their mother. You can im
agine tneir sorrow when left under such cir
cumstances without a protector. They are
free, but their mother is a slave, in the hands
of men who have no fear of God before their
eyes, “whom no pity can awe,” no benevo
lence conciliate, no tears, no orphan cries,
no broken hearts, no dishonored name, no
fears of death, the judgment, and long
eternity of woo eon arrest.”
Correspondence of the Tribune.
Esnporior Faust in I, of Hs tti, sad hi*
Palace.
PoRT-at?-Pamci, March 15.
Having reached this city, my first care was
to request M. Raybaud to present me to the
man whose name is at this moment in the
hundred mouths of renown. After several
days the French Consul announced to me
that be had arranged the desired interview.
We betook ourselves to the Palace. This
edifice, which served as a habitation to the
old Governors of St. Domingo, appears rath
er imposing when, compared with the mean
houses of the city, although it has but one
story, raised several feet above the ground.
A barred court-yard, where the Emperor
holds a review every Sunday morning,
vaguely recalls that of the Tuilleries.
We entered a hall of waiting, which I ex
amined with curiosity. The floor ia of mar
ble slabs; the furniture is of black hair-cloth
and straw. On a richly wrought table stands
a fine bronze cloak, representing the arms of
Haiti —a palm, surrounded with a bundle of
lances, and surmounted with a Phrygian cao.
Two handsome portraits serve as pendants to
each other; one represents the Abbe Greg
ime, the celebrated conventionist, the other
the reigning Emperor. The first is the work
of a European pencil—the second does hon
or to the talent of a mulattos rtist, Baron Col
bert. I should, perhaps, have noticed other
particulars if the step of his Majesty had not
been heard in the adjoining hall, which con
tains portraits of the great men of Hayti, and
serves for grand receptions. We advanced
to meet the Emperor, who wears a green
uniform of an irreproachable cut, epaulettes
of gold adorned with twelve silver stars, a
plate on his breast, a sword at his side, and
his chapeau in his band.
He commenced by giving us a cordial
shake of the hand, then mmed himself on a
fauteuil, and awaited with a certain timidity
for M. Raybaud td commence. We seated,,
ourselves. The Consul, in announcing my
name, said that I had come to visit the Em
pire as a traveller, and w mid not willingly
have departed without the honor of having
been received by His Majesty. “Sire, it is
the only aim ot my voyage,” said I half ri
sing. The Emperor imitated my movement
thanking me. “I have already had the plea
sure of seeing Monsieur at the review on
Sunday,” he added, graciously. It was
now my turn to thank him. The conversa
tion continued in this tone about twenty min
utes. When we rose to take leave of the
Emperor, he shook hands again. Three
salutations on our part, and three on his,
completed the ceremony.
Faustin Soulouque is entirely black, but
his features have by no means the savage
and hideous expression whi-;h has been igno
rantly attributed to the purely African type.
His look might be called handsome, and his
smile is quite agreeable. Aged about 64
years, he does not seem to be more than 50;
of a medium height, he has, a very full chest,
large shoulders and broad' hips. On horse
back he has a stately air, and is one of the
best horsemen i have ever seen. On foot,
his corpulence makes him appear small. Al
though naturally not much of a talker, he al
way« exhibits a perfect propriety and dignity
in his words. Here it may be well to rectify
the rumor which has attributed to him a com
plete ignorance of the French language. In
my presence he expressed himself very cor
rectly, and without the least mixture of Cre
ole dialect. He has also been accused of
knowing neither how to lead or write. The
truth is that he signs his name legibly,
writes even a letter if need he, and reads ev
ery evening, without the aid of a Secretary,
the new History of Hayti, which is now be
ing published by a talented native, M. Modi
on, recently created Baron. The caricatures
and squibs of the Parisian press have annoyed
him profoundly. In this respect he possess
es an incurable susceptibility.
The birth of Souloque was very humble, he
was horn as a slave in the plantation of M.
t Viallet. This white, who has been pointed
I to me, succeeded in stemming the revolutton
-1 ary waves which have agitated the Queen of
tha Aunties, and actually lives at Port-au- i
Prince at present. Soulouque, meeting him j
lately, said: “Although Emperor to every-
body else, I cannot help still as regarding you
as my master.” “And I, sire, consider my
self your subject,” replied M. Viallet: a little
dialogue which indicates how marvellous are
the reverses of butnan destiny!
On the evacuation of the French, the
freed slave entered the army ofDossalines as
a soldier, and afterward, under Petion, fought
against Christophe. From step to step he
came to be Colonel, at the time of the fall of
Boyer, an event to which he contributed in
no way. His taciturnity—a quality or defect
which, among the blacks, is considered as a
matk of prefound discretion—caused him to
be admitted to the confidence of the different
subterranean trains which succeeded each
other from 1843 to 1847. Created General of
Brigade by Richer, he owed his election to
the Presidency to the chance which pronoun
ced his name in the Senate, whon opinions
were about equally divided between two
candidates, neither of whom could obtain the
necessary majority, He was favored by both
parties: by the blacks, on account of hts ebo
ny skin, and by the Creoles, because they
hoped to use him as their pliant tool. The
sequel showed how much they were mista
ken. They had chosen a master, not a ser
vant.
From the Contributor.
Eld. Mathews’ Journal.
Doring the Convention, sermons was
preached by bro. Kenyon, Fitzgerald, and the
writer. A cordial hospitality was shown by
the inhabitants in the vicinity, and much sym
pathy manifested for ihe Free Mission cause.
On my return, 1 lectured at West Madi
son. on slavery, in its political and religious
bearings. A full house. The Sons of Tem
perance allowed the use of their hall for the
meeting.
VVc came up the Ohio river in the “Ben
Franklin,” a splendid boat, but like other
boats, it pays more respect to a white gam
bler than to a colored minister. To rebuke
this ungodly practice, 1 waited, when des
cending the river, till the colored passengers
came to the table, none other of my color ate
with them. I was waited on admirably.
“Will you not take some fish* sir, here is
some exellent fish, shall we help you to a thin
slice of ham*” Sic. were the inquries of the
waiters, all of whom were colored. But I
was about to describe our coming up the riv
er. There were on bosid but two colored
passengers, bro. Fitzgerald of Columbus, and
S. Tosspot, a Congregationalist. Five
white passenners, including bro. J. C. Cra
ven and his wife, whose moral courage was
worthy of all praise, agreed togeilier to wait
and eat with them.
The supper bell, at length, rang, and the
fiist company were ferved; The secondf
bell rang, and the remainder sat down, o
course they did not fill the seats.' f began to
fear they would never finish eatiog, it seem
ed so long. When their lordships had finish
ed, the table was spread for the colored pass
engers, and, (as we had given the steward a
hint,) for their associates. We enjoyed the
supper, albeit, several pair of eyes peered
upon us from the end of the cabin. Now for
the deseit. After supper we
divided the boat into distticis. Then each
one taking a district, visited, and couieously
furnished to each passenger a hand-bill (pre
viously printed,) one of which I enclose.
To the Passengers on board this Steam-boat.
Respected Reader:—Custom having es
tablished a law, which requires colored per
sons, whatever may he their intellectual and
moral worth, to watt till white persons have
eaten, before they appear a> the table, on board
our steam-boats, Ac. We present to our
fellow-passengers the following reasons
against the continuance of this custom:
1. It is unjust.—Colored passengers pay
the same fare as others.
9. It is contrary to the word of Cod:—
“Do unto others as y* would do unto yox”i
“Love thy neighbors as thyself.” “Inas
much us ye did it unto one of the Inst ol
these ray brethren ye did ft nnto me.”
3. It is anti-republican:—All men are bora
free and equal.
4. It pays no regard to moral character:—
Gamblers if white, take precedence of min
isters of tbe gospel if colored.
5. It is oppressive to the friends ofliberty.
They are expected to sanction the wicked
prejudice on which slsvery (the sutn of til
villsnies) rests.
Should tbe reader desired to reply publicly
to these objections, he »ill please forward
his name to the person from whom he re
ceived this band-bill, that it may be appended
to a paperto be presented to the Captain ol
the steam-boat, requesting its use for that
purpose. Several Passengers.”
v ou inquire, how waa it received? I re
ply, differently by different persons. Tbe
wife of the Captain handed it back to brs.
Craven, whose district was the ladies’ cabin,
“my husband is perfectly competent to make
rules for the government of tbe boat.” An
other read it, and opening the stove door
threw it into the fire. Anoiher proposed to
see the Captain, sud have those who distri
buted them sent ashore at the first wood-yard.
Another came to me for another copy to send
to Charlestown. But in all that numerous
throng of passengers, not one was found ready
and willing to come out and defend the un
godly practice. And yet it was the Hardest
silence ever held. They felt guilty and had
no power to conceal the guilt.
Usually, free colored passengers are not al
lowed to sleep in the state-roorna, but a bed
is made for them on the cabin floor. Even
colored ladies in some boats suffer ihts indig
nity. Uuless they choose to sit up all night,
which with the delicacy which honor
of the sex, they in some cases prefer to do 1
Bro. Fitzgerald, however, was not thus treat
ed, that night, the first instance probably in
the history of the boat, he slept in the same
state-room with a white mah. As I thought
of the comfortable berth he had, my pillow
seemed .softer. I ought to add, that in each
state-room are two berths, and when a slave
holder comes on board, he occupies one berth
and the slave the other. “Great is Diana ot
the Ephesians.”
Presbyterian General Assembly, N. 8.
This Convention on the sixth day of its ses
sion, had majority and minority reporta, on
the subject of slavery, frem s committee ap
pointed on that subject.
THE MAJORITY REPORT
Was presented by Dr. Duffield of Detroit.
Here is an extract:
1. Resolved, That we deeply deplore thd
working of the whole system of American
Slavery, interwoven as it is, with the policy
of tire slave-holding States, and with tbe
social and domestic life of their citizens, and
regarding it, as in former years we have ex
plicity stated, to be fraught with sefious in
jury to the civil, political, intellectual, and
moral interests of society, and le riding to much
sin, we declare it to be, in all cases, where
the laws of the State, the obligations ol
guardianship, and the demands of humanity
do not render it unavoidable an offense in
the proper import of that term as used in our
Book of Discipline, Cnap. 1, Sec. 3.
2d. Resolved, That while we regard all ca
ses in which the holding of slaves is sinful,
a matter for the exercise of such discipline as
falls within the proper jurisdiction of the in
ferior chyrch courts of sessions; yet, as our
constitution declares, “the exercise of dis
cipline in such a manner as to edify the
ciiurch, requires not only much of the spirit
of piety, but also much prudence and discre
tion,” and therefore, “it becomes the rulera
of the church to take into view all the cir
cumstances which may give a different char
acter to conduct, and tender it more or less
offensive, and which may of course, require
a very different mode of proceeding in similar
cases at different times for the attainment of
the same end.” Book of Dis., Chap. 1,
Sec. 5,
These obligations we cannot disrespect or
violate without a breach of the covenant
binding us in visible unity, under the acknow
(ledged authority of the Book of Discipline,
j That Constitution prescribes the modes and
1 processes of discipline so distinctly, that any
attempt at a summary withdrawal from fel
lowship, or declarative condemnation, legis
lative exscinding, or censure, pronounced,
in respect of particular synods, presbyteries,
churches, nr their members, without a due
and careful investigation of charges prefer
red, and proof and guilt adduced conformably
to its provisions as j ust as contrary to our
covenant, as it is repugnant to the obliga
tions of Christian courtesy, the dictates of
common justice, and the positive precepts of
the Word of God.
The powers of the General Assembly and
of all inferior judicatures are carefully defined
in our Book of Discipline. To the church i
session exclusively pertains “the spiritual
government of the congregation,” the power
to inquire into the knowledge and Christian
conduct of the members of the church,” and
consequently, to judge of the qualifications for
membership, and to admit to the fellowship
of the church. The word God is in the law,
and the confession of faith with the Lirger
and the Shorter catechism which sets forth
our acknowledgement and covenant agree
ment as to what that word teaches, is the ac
cepted conventional aid to direct in the ex
ercise of that judgement.

2d. Resolved. That while the General As
sembly are constitutionally incompetent by
legislative acts, to exscind any of their Synods,
Presbyteries, churches, or members, or to
pronounce their condemnation of persons and
churches, except in the exercise of appellate
jurisdiction; or even to know the disciplinary
action of inferior courts, and the condition of
the churches, except as they may be particu
larly and officially informed, they can only
testify, “exhort and entreat with all long
suffering and gentleness”—speaking the
truth in love, and in the spirit of Christ.
The minority report was presented by Mr.
Wisner of New York.
MINORITY REPORT.
A minority of the committee to whom waa
referred a number of memorials on the sub
ject of slavery from various Synods, Presby
teries and Churches within oar bounds, beg i
leave to report—
That after a careful and thorough examina
tion of the whole subject, they have been
brought to the conclusion, that, in considera
tion of the previous action of the Assembly,
had at different times for a series of years,
and what they believe to be its present sen
timents, and the expectation of the Churches
in its connection, the cause of truth and right
cousness, of peace and unity will be best sub
served by the adoption of the following re
solutions.
Resolved, 1. That we exceedingly deplore
the working of the whole system of slavery
as it exists in our country, and is interwoven
with the political institutions of the slave
holding States, as fraught with many §nd
great evils to the civil, political and moral in
terests of those regions where it exists.
2. That the holding ot our fellow men in
bondage, and treating them as chattels, un
less licensed by the civil laws, and other cir
cumstances, over which the individual baa no
control, is an offense against God and the
Church, which should be put upon a level
with, and be treated in the same manner as
other offenses of the same magnitude.
3. That the Sessions and Presbyteries are
by tbe constitution of our church, the court
or primary jurisdictions for tbe trial of offen
ses.
4. That after this declaration of sentiment,
the whole subject of slavery, as it exist* in
the church, be referred to the Sessions and
Presbyteries, to take such action thereon at
in their judgement the lawa of Christianity re
tjuire.
lapnHMKit of Colored Seameo.
Saikn with an African complexion, who
eater any of the porta of South Carolina, are,
by ’irtue of a law of that State, arrested and
impri»>ned. And to render this impriaon
mbnt inevitable, the Habeas Corpus law,
which, (any where else is sacred, has been
suspended;-
Be it enacted by the Semite mid House of
ReprsenUUives, <f-c. That no negro or free
perm* of color, who shall enter this State on
board«f any vessel as a cook, steward, or
marker, or in any employment on w.*d of
such vessel, and who shall be apprehended
and confined by any sheriff in pursuance ot
the provisions of sau) act; shall be entitled to
the vraiT or Habeas Cobfus, or any benefit
under and by virtue of the statute made in
the kingdom of England, 31 chap 3, entitled
“An ast fittr the better securing the liberty of
the subject, and prevent imprisonment beyond
seas’* aid made of force in this Stale; and
the provisions of said habeas corpus act and
the several acts of Assembly of this State,
amendatot y thereof; are hereby declared not
to apply to any free negro or person of color
entering into this State, contrary to the pro
vision! of the aforesaid act of Assembly,
passed December 19. 1845.
Under this law Freemen, pursuing a law
ful calling, whose services are necessary to
their employers, and who have committed no
offence, are seized and sent to prison! This
oceuy in a country and under a Government
boasdng of its Freedom, its Civilization and
its J*iuce! And yet, derogatory as such a
!aw Ato the character of oar country; con-
Aiming, as it does, with the principles of our
Government; and abhorent, as it is, to our
sense of right, so unwilling is the North to
disturb its relations even with South Carolina
Jhtt this revolting injustice, this sickening op
pH»ion, is patiently endured!— Alb. Jour.
Slave Case.— Nicholas Dudley a young
n»D about 22 years of age, was brought
before Judge Daly, on Habeas Corpus sued
out by Alien Thomas of Maryland, who
claims that the said Dudley is his slave, born
oa his estate, and demanding that he be giv
es up to him. Dudley was brought from the
Gty Prison, where he was confined under
as indictment for grand larceny, in stealing
money and a boat from a vessel. David
Graham appeared on behalf of the applicant,
aid Mr. Jay for Dudley. The Dmiict At
torney, Mr. McKeon, made return that Dud
ley is held under the indictment, &0., on
which Judge Daly remanded him to prison
till the indictment should be disposed of.
He subsequently pleaded guilty at the Ses
sions, of the offence charged in the indictment,
and was sentenced to two years in the State
Prison. Mr. Graham made application for an
order that he be surrendered to Mr. Thomas
on the expiration of the sentence, but the
Court refused to entertain the motion until
after the expiration of the sentence. A
large number of colored persons, of both sexes,
hovered round the City Hall a large portion
of the day.— N. Y. Express, 14th.
RIGHT OF SUFFRAGE IN OHIO.
Our Colored Fellow Citizens in
Ohio have, during the last two years,
made very spirited and commendable
efforts to secure the Right of Franchise.
They have held conventions, sent
forth addresses, passed resolutions, and
delivered lectures with a vie- 40
pose the public mind to their
object, and not without success, for we
have observed a marked change in the
tone of the press of that State with re
spect to Colored Citizens, which may
be traced rt to their own cfforts at
vat ion. If they fail of accom
plishing their grrfnd object at this pres
ent constitutional convention, as is like
ly to be the case, they must not be dis
couraged, but rather glory in continu
ing the struggle, remembering the old
proverb, that they who shoot at the
moon though they fail to hit it, never
theless, shoot higher than those who
aim at the earth. We copy the fol
lowing proceedings of the Constitu
tional Convention from the Anti-Sla
very Bugle.— f. d.
Among the resolutions adopted is one
instructing the Committee on the El
ective Franchise to inquire into the ex
pediency of engrafting a clause in the
1 Constitution more effectually to pre
vent the immigration and settlement of
negroes and mulattoes within this
State. Of course it took aDemocrat(!)
to propose such a resolution! Its ad
option shows the ruling spirit of the
Convention.
On the 16th inst. Mr. Cook, of
Medina, presented two memorials sign
ed by about filty inhabitants of Stark
and Portage,—one praying that the
new Constitution may secure to all the
citizens of the State equal rights and
privileges, irrespective ot complexion
or race; and the other praying that the
new Constitution may accord to all the
members of the Commonwealth equal
rights, political and civil, without re
gard to sex or color. Mr. Cook mov
ed that these memorials be received,
read and referred to the committee on
the Elective Franchise.
The redoubtable Mr. Sawyer—
(whether he is related to him of Sau
sage memory we know not) —said: “I
shall ferever object, sir, to every peti
tion of the kind, so far as the colored
population are concerned. I don’t
care if they prefer to let women vote
and hold office—that don’t disturb me.”
—[Laughter.]
Mr. Archibold said; “I began to
see, sir, that we are likely to be con
siderably annoyed by petitions of this
class, ahd 1 would suggest that we just
as quitely as possible allow all these
effusions <f f >ily and fanticisra to go to
the table, without debate or remark—
with the least possible notice.”
Mr. Townsend said he would be per
fectly willing that these and all other
petitions should be received and refer
red in the usual manner without dis
cussion, if gentlemen would u
oppose or characterize them as “ef
fusions of folly and fanticism.” Will
they agree to this?
Mr. Mitchell had serious doubts
whether any petition proposing to class
the negro population of Ohio with re
ference to their rights and interests
with our wives and daughters, could
be made in respectful language. He
would be very glad if gentlemen would
suggest to their constituents the pro
perty of separating in their petitions,
and carefully distinguishing between
these two objects. He was opposed to
combining them. It is a pity that the
people of Ohio should not square their
principles to suit the taste of Mr.
Mitchell!
Mr. Holmes, of Hamilton, inquired
whether the signers of those petitions
were white or colored. His vote must
depend on that. He was unwilling to
receive petitions from the colored por
tion of our population, or even seem
to entertain any disposition to receive
them, lest the fact might go abroad
and encourage them to petition from all
quarters of the State.
Mr. Cook: “I believe that I am ac
quainted with nearly every individual
signers of these memorials,and I believe
they are ail white. 1 think I am not
mistaken in that. I will say, however,
that it would make no difference with
me, in presenting these papers,whether
their signers had been white or black,
Judging from the tone of the remarks
which have accompanied the presenta
tion of these petitions, 1 am led to con
clude that, except I alter my democra
tic notions upon this subject, I shall be
found in a very lean minority here, for
I hnow of no one in the community
so degraded whose respectful prayer I
would not be willing to hear; and 1
know of no deliberate body with de
legated powers so awfully dignified, to
whom I would not present such a peti
tion.
The memorials were received and
referred to the committe on the Elec
tive Franchise.
On the 20th, Mr. Gray, of Lake, of
fered a resolution, that the Constitution
require the passage of laws prohibit
ing any officer connected with tne ad
ministration of justice in the State
from aiding in the arrest or detention ol
any person claimed as a fugitive from
slavery or involuntary service.
Mr. Sawyer demanded the ayes and
noes on this resolution. He wanted to
see whether the Convention was will
ing to have a provision incorporated in
the new Constitution in palpable viola
tion of the Constitution of the United
States.
Mr. Swan moved to lay the’ resolu
tion on the table, which was carried.
A resolution offered by Mr. Hunter
of Ashtabula, proposing to insert a
clause in the Bill of Rights declaring
that life shall never be taken for any
crime whatever, and that imprisonment
for life shall be the highest punishment
inflicted in any case, was referred to
the Judiciary Committee.
We have condensed the above fr.un
the Ohio Standard.
ICJ* He who gives for the sake ol
thanks, knows not the pleasure of giv
ing.
From tkt Lilorator.
TO WI. LLOYD GARRISON.
Roxbcrt, May 34, 1860.
Ho alone break* from tbe ran and lh» freemen,
He alone aink* to the rear and the glare*!
iV a may march pronpering,—not tbroogta hi* pr*a
ence;
Bonf* may inaokrit oe, —not from bn lyre;
Deed* wil be don*,—H.Wte be boost* the.r quM*.
Still bidding crouch who** re« bid aspire.
J9rowmngs *Lott Leader.
Garrison:
I trust it is not too late to congratulate
you on the result of the Anti-Slavery
Anniversary in the city of New York.
Ever since I first opened my heart ts
the cause of freedom, 1 have felt an 4
said, that an educated black man is
the best anti-slavery argument,—little
anticipating, meanwhile, the recent
triumph of Messrs. Douglass anfl
Ward. I know of no orator equal to
Frederick Douglass, and it seems to
me that the anti-slavery cause owes as
much to him, to his forbearance, man*
liness, perfect balance and wit, as the
cause of human rights to your untiring
and noble championship. I am glad
that Douglass is my half-brother, and 1
thank heaven that our Anglo-Saxon
arrogance is like to be somewhat aba
ted when we consider that he is no)
wholly our You know very well
that sympathizing with you fully in re
gard to the principles of your actions,
honoring you for your firmness, I have,
nevertheless, feared sometimes lest
you should press your argument with
unrighteous point. 1 have feared that
the cause you love so much might suf
fer from the apparent injustice of youi
abstract statements. When I listen
ed to you in public, a feeling of pair
has mingled with my admiration, and 1
have prayed that you might be so led
that, resisting evil unto the death, you
might not needlessly array the preju
dices of your audience against youi
cause. 1 felt thus iu the May of 1849,
and 1 then had to thank Frederick
Douglass for rising after remarks that
were liable to be misunderstood, and
nobly, generously, religiously resta
ting and pursuing them. When 1 re
member what)our course has been
for the last twenty years, what you en
dured while I slept in my cradle, 1
feel that neither 1 nor those who come
after me have any claim to the qrown
you wear. We have hardly a right
to praise you, for the conduct which
has spoken louder than words, for the
perseverance which no bodily suffering
has overcome. Not as an Abolition
ist, then, but as the friend of Human
Rights, as one determined to struggle
to the last, for a free press and free
lips, let me thank you for the stand
thus far maintained in May, 1850.
After such an exhibition of the despo
tism of the New York mob, we need
not be surprised to know that the offi
ces of her city government have been
long abandoned tu men who could be
hired—the retainers of any mean
enough to purchase a conscience. A
negro man and a half-negro, whose
generous blood a miserable Anglo-
Saxon streak has not been able to pale
have spoken to this New York mob,
and have conquered it. In spite o!
the press, the link between man and
the monkey has been finally snapped!
The last six months have been rich ic
antf-slavery fruit, and little has ripen
ed to so good purpose as Daniel Web
ster's defection from the truth and
right. I have no time now to echc
Mrs. Swisshelm’s impressions of the
man, as I might. In that regard, 1
have long sorrowed over a noble wreck.
It was hoped by many, doubtless, that
he would find some noble excuse foi
our fathers' compromise with sin and
death; but had he, you must have lost
the ground that we must either enter
such a compromise or protest against
our unholy Union. But Wm. Lloyd
Garrison and the Great Expounder
read the Constitution alike! 1 trust that
every American will read his late
speech, and will know henceforth that
there is no middle ground for him to
rest on, w ill understand that if he does
not oppose, he must support our 'pe
culiar institution.’
‘We that had loved him to, followed him, honor
ed him,
Lived in hi* mild and magnificent eve,
Learned hi* gieat language, caught if* clear ac
cent*
Made him our pattern to live and to die!'
We are told, in unmistakable lan
guage that we must give up our pant
ing fugitives, with their earned
right to draw a short breath, to the
pettiest U. S. officer, who chooses to
swear on a master’s purse! This on
the one side, inind you; and on the
other, see the freemen of Massachu
setts led through the streets ofCharles
ton like pickpockets,—thrust into her
prisons like criminals for the great sin
of a dark cheek, nor utter one appeal
to the court of the Most High! Rather
let us utter it three times a day, like
Daniel, with our- vrindows up, from
this henceforth! Is it wondvful that
a Rynders should a
Webster led the way?—shonk choose
to be little when he refuseq, to be
great? Let men and angels grieve
over our national loss, but rejoice over
such anti-slavery gain! I agree with
you in thinking that the anti-slavery
cause is a gospel of itself, and
contends against the same foes as
the gospel in Judea. One bitter like
ness we may all deplore. Among the
primitive Christians, a man's foes were
they of his own household. So are
they now. Ido not mean that anti
slavery feeling creates family discord,
but simply that tbe subject being of
such importance that no man can dodgr
it, brings out into the light those dif
fering degrees of conscientiousness
which make it sorrowful work some
times to abide with those we love,
whether of the family or the nation.
May God give us strength to endure
every national and every individual
test, until the end be come. May we
watch and pray ceaselessly for thoss
we love, but first of all, for that love of
truth, which is tbe love of God.
May this expression of sympath|
strengthen the right cause. Use it,
and ine, always and allwbere, in behalf
of human rights.
CAROLINE W. HEALEY DALL. j
“Thou shall not deliver unto his
master the servant who is escaped from
the masier unto thee: He shall dwell
with thee, even among you in that place
which he shall choose in one of thy
gates, where it liketb him best; thou
sbalt not oppose him.”*— Dent, xxiii, 15
“TOTOAINT I»OUVBRTt T RB.»*
The English papers inform us tba
this new play of Lamartine, the poet
statesman, al its first representatioi
produced a great sensation. Tons
saint L’Ouvertnre, the chieftain o
Hay ti, was a slave on the plantation o
M. Bayru. When the riving of the
negroes took place in 1791, Touasain
refused to join them until he had aid
ed his master and family to escape t(
Baltimore. Mons. B. had discoveret
in him many noble qualities, and hat
instructed him in some of the firsi
branches of education, and to the ne
gro’s gratitude for this kindness wai
owing the preservation of the master*!
life. In 1797, Toussaint was appoint
ed by the French government general
in-chief of the armies of St. Domingo
and under his government the Islant
was happy, tranquil and prosperous
Napoleon attempted to re-establisl
slavery in St. Domingo, and thougl
the project failed, yet the chieftair
was sacrificed. He was seized am
hurried on board a vessel at night, ant
•carried to France, where he was con
lined in a cold, subterranean dungeoi
atßesaacon, where, in April, 1890, hi
died. Whittier, the poet, in thrilling
versa, has immortalized the dark war
■tors fame.
iL Candid .Witness. —Epes Sar
fsftt, the Editor of the Boston Tran*
icr.pt—a man who has no affinity with
Abolitionists—having been an eye
witness of the row in the Tabernacle,
wrote to his paper an account of the
scene, in which he says:
It was the first time I had seen
Frederick Douglass. There seemed
a disposition to hiss him down on the
part of Captain Rynders and otheT
pillars of the church. But Douglass
deprecatingly remarked, that surely
the audience could not apprehend that
any difficulty would be created by a
monkey;” and he thereupon replied,
in a mingled strain of sarcasm, pathos
sad manly scorn to the harangue of
his medical predecessor. I really can
not name the white man, in Congress
or out, who could have acquitted him
self more eloquently and ably—with a
more graceful ease or- dignified sell
possession—than Douglass did on this
occasion. His voice is strong, musi
cal and pliant; his utterance measur
ed and promp; his language choice,
pointed arid beautiful; and there is a
reserve of power conveyed in his man
ner, as if he did but give to his words
half the fervor and force which his
heart would lend. After he had spo
ken some minutes with a spirit, a read
iness, and a propriety which extorted
admiration from friend and foe, he
turned abruptly to the audience, and
exclaimed:
“Look at me—and judge between
me and that gentleman’s theory— am I
not a man?” A thundering Yes went
up in reply from many voices.
Cotton Cultivation in Jamaica.
—The cultivation of cotton in the
British West Indies, and iu other pos
sessions of Great Britain, is becoming
a topic of great interest and attention
with the British Government and peo
ple, principally from an apprehension
that serious difficulties may arise from
the present dependence of Great Brit
ain upon the United States for a sup
ply of an article so essential to the
mercantile and manufacturing prosper
ity of the former country.
From an advertisement in a New
York newspaper, we learn that a Cot
ton Company is now being formed for
the cultivation of cotton in Jamaica,
and the advertiser, as agent, wishes to
receive applications for shares. It is
proposed to purchase a certain estate
of between 2,500 and 4,000 acres, in
the vicinity of Spanishtown, the me
tropolis of Jamaica. Cotton grown on
the Island is stated to be remarkably
fine in quality and, when once planted,
the friendly nature of the climate and
soil renders it independent of much caro
on the part of the planter,
j We would be glad to hear of the
j success of this, and every other effort
to increase the supply of cotton cultiva
ted by free labor.
The Past, the Present and the
Future.-— The Liverpool Albion glan
ces at the past, and the prospective for
1850, and gives (this brief but compre
hensive view:
What may happen on the continent
of Europe before it shall also go down
into the grave of time, he would be a
bold prophet who would venture to
guess. France is always uncertain.
Germany is unsettled, and in a state
of effervescence from one extremity to
the other. Italy is groaning to be free.
Hungary is only held down, but nei
ther conquered nor pacified. The blood
of murdered patriots and martyrs has
vet to be avenged. There is an ill
feeling growing between Prussia and
Austria. The young eagle of the
soaring house of Brandendurg is eager
to take advantage of dotage of the race
of Hapsburg. Russia, too, is biding
W time to pounce upon Turkey. It
may be, then, that we have not.reached
the end of the storm, only a 'lull be?
iween the gone and coming blast. We
walk upon gunpowder. A spark is
enough to cause an explosion, and we
have firebrauds flying m all directions.
—Blue Hen's Chicken.
At the first performence of Lamar
ine’s play in Paris, at the Porte St.
Martin, a crowd collected round the
doors as early as twelve o’clock; at the
opening the throng was immence. In
the first scene the population of St. Do
mingo was exhibited collected on the
bankft of the sea, upon whose blue sur
face was reflected the brilliant light of
the sun {the black Marsellaisc was sung
with enthusiasm, and, throughout the
piece, the aid of beautiful scenery and
uf well-managed machinery gave to the
striking incidents and energetic poetry
an effect which quite won the admira
tion of the audience. The acting ol
Frederick Lemaitre assisted the poet,
and the whole was received with en
thusiastic applause. When the curtain
fell the poet was loudly called tor, but
ne had left the house. The audience
sung a rtfra/in upon the favorate tune
Lampion, w hich was so universally sung
during the days of the revolution, mak
ing use of the name of Lamartine in
stead of Lampion’s. The whole affair
was very gratifying to the author.