Another Victim or the slave
holders. —“John M. Barrett, Esq.,
wbo was arrested in South Carolina on
suspicion of being opposed to slavery,
and subsequently released on bail, died
at Dublin, Ind., on the 23d ult. The
m ew-Castle Courier says, he died ot a
disease brought on by long confinement
witnin the damp and unwholesome
walls of a southern prison, and ‘fell a
victim to the dark and bloody spirit of
slavery, whose path is strewn with hu
man lives and crushed hopes and
bleeding affections, and the fearful ag
gregation of every human woe and
misery.”
DnTY of Avoiding Slave Produce.
—“lf the friends of freedom would ab
stain entirely from the use of slave
grown cotton, it would have a tendency
to diminish this horrible traffic. En
courage the free-laboring farmers of
ihe South, and decline the products of
sweat and toil, and it may exert a mor
al influence over the slave-holder, while
it will gain the good will of the poor
white citizens of the South to the cause
of human freedom.
“Whatever may be the difference of
opinion as to the moral right to pur
chase slave labor products, all anti
slavery men ought to feel the obliga
tion to encourage the free laborer,
rather than the master of slaves. And
even should we pay a cent or two more
on the poun-J or yard, we should feel
that the interests of humanity demand
it, and therefore do it oheerfully.”
The above is extracted from The
Crisis, a paper published at Cincin
nati, and edited by an individual who
was long a citizen of a Slave Sue.]
The Ingenious Slave Catcher.—
“On the last Sabbath in February, a
local preacher of the M. E. Church,
named Mayhew, from Kentucky, gave
out an appointment to preach near An
trim, Guernsey Co., Ohio, and a large
encourse assembled to hear him.
“After the sermon, he deliberately
walked from the stand to the outskirts
of the congregation, and laid hold of a
colored sister in the church, who had
a child of her own in her arms, and
proceeded to draw a rope from his
pocket to tie her, claiming, at the same
time, that she was a fugitive slave of
one ot his neighbors; and saying that
he was sent after her, and took this
plan to find her, in order to secure the
reward of 75 dollars offered for her.
Upon remonstrance by some of the
bystanders, he played the bravado, by
displaying sundry revolvers and bowie
knives in his pockets; and stated that,
if any one would dare to interfere they
would feel the effects of them; then de
liberately put her in his buggy, tied
her, and drove off. The wuinan, 1
learn, is a widow that has resided in
the country for several years.”— Letter
to the true Wesleyan.
“Calhoun is dead It is cer
tain that all the energies of his life
were given to the extension and perpet
uation of human bondage; and, in a
speech which he rose from his death
bed to deliver in the U. S. Senate, he
claimed more extension of slavery,more
security from the pestilent attacks of
the hated abolitionists, more facilities
for the catching oi the escaped bond
men, and, finally, more political pow
er for slavery—or that the Union would
be a thing that was. He has been foi
years a phrenzied fanatic, fighting'
with desperate madness and gigantic
powers,against the fiat of the Almighty
—that slavery shall cease. His speech
es are amongst the greatest ‘cariositiet
of literature’ that we have seen thii
side the Atlantic. They deny th<
greatest and best authenticated facts
and state the most glaring falsehoods
with the air oftruth. They make th<
most arrogant demands, with the ap
parent humility and simplicity of child
hood. Calhoun was little fees than at
archangel ruined. He has for t wentj
years ruled the slave states to
ruin. Whether his death will produo
or conduce to any better state of feel
ing or action in the South, remains t<
be developed.” —Letter from Willutx
p, Whiting, e»f t doled April 15, 1860
VOL. 111. NO. 37.
Slavery.—Here is a profile of our
national action on the subject now be
fore the people:
In 1774,' we agreed to import no
more slaves after that year, and never
i formally repealed this act of agree
ment.
In 1776, we declared that all men
arc qpeated equal, and endowed by
their Creator with certain inalienable]
rights, among which are life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness.”
In 1783, we formed the Confed
eracy,” with no provision for the sur
render of fugitive slaves.
In 1787, we shut out slavery from
the Northwest Territory forever, by
the celebrated proviso of Mr. Jefferson, j
In 1788, the Constitution was formed
with compromises” and guarantees.
In 1808, ihe importation of slaves
was forbidden; but
In 1809, we annexed Louisiana, ancl
slavery along with it.
In 1819, we annexed Florida, with
more slavery.
In 1820, we legally established sla
very m the territory west of the Miss
issippi, south of 36 deg. 30m.
In 1845, we annexed Texas, with j
326,520 square miles, as a slave State, j
In 1848, we acquired, by conquest!
and treaty, the free Territory of Cali
fornia and New Mexico, containing]
528,078 square miles. Of this 204,-
383 square miles are south of the slave
line—south of 36 deg. 30m. Here isj
territory enough to make more than
thirty slave States of the size of Mas-*
sachusetts.
Universal Suffrage. —We boast]
of being freemen—of having free in-]
stitutions, and equal laws—yet in this
state we refuse to giv:> the right ofi
suffrage to a certain class—no matter
how intelligent, or how virtuous! One
man may be so drunk that it will take
three sober ones to get him to the polls
or he may be so ignorant that he can
not tell one ticket from another, but
none questions his right to give an
equal voice with the wisest and best,
in the elections. But here comes 1
anotiier wlio’se character is without a
stain—his intellect is highly cultivated
—but he is told to stand hack —he is
disfranchised by our Free Constitution.
But says he:
“Do I not possess sufficient intelli
gence to vote
“Doubtless you do.”
“Have I rendered myself unwotthy
of the elective franchise by any viola
tion of law, or as an enemy to Free
dom?”
“No.”
“Do I not pay taxes to pay the sala
ary of the officers for whom I wish to
vote?”
“Yes.”
“Am I not to be governed by the
laws which you refuse me any voice in
making?”
“Yes.”
“Am I not worth'as much—do I not
know as much—am I not as honest—
as the candidates of either party?”
“Very possible
“Why, then, am I disfranchised in a
State always boasting ofits Republican
institutions?”
“Because a Free Republican, Amer
ican Constitution says you shall be.
Get out of that drunken white man’s
way, nigger!”
And this we call Democracy! a Free
Government! Free to disfranchise a
portion of our citizens, who help pay
our taxes, and are amenable to the
laws, merely because there is African
blood—though hut a drop—in their:
veins! Ought we not to blush till we;
are ourselves “black'in the fact?,” that
in this Christian age of Free Principles
we have so long suffered so disgrace
ful a prohibition in our Constitution? I
If we are to have a test of citizen-j
ship in our Constitution, let it be one
of equality, and not of color. If any
class is to be disfranchised, let it be i
those who are disqualified by ignorance l
or vice. No good, even plausible rea
-1 son can be given why a black freeman
should not have a privilege at the bal
j lot-box. We doubt whether any one
1 will attempt to give any. And yet
j there will be enough in the Constitu
tional Convention willing to deny them
the right. They will hardly dare to
give the true motive (we will not say
reason in the case,) for their bitter hate
of the colored man. Some perhaps
could not give it. They could only
say
“Tins reason why I cannot tell—
But liii* I know, and that full well
do not like iliee, Dr. Fell.”
And t ey will vote without a why or
therefore,to have the Constitution read
“every white male citizen!”
j Freemen of Michigan shall this be?
H Shall not a free, liberty-loving, oppres
mon-hating people demand th*t the
word “white” be stricken from the con
stituiion to be formed? Let public
1 meetings be called, petitions circulated
r and such public expressions made, as
our Delegates will feel boun4 to obey.
This is a subject upon which all par
t ties may unite. Let ’the people act,
The progress of Free Principles may
not be stayed. The man or party that
s j throws itself in the way, ought to be
2 J crushed. The man who would refust
i a colored man his right, would do the
same to any other man against whon
e he entertained prejudice,
Some of the States have always con
sidered color no test of competency foi
a citizenship. Others have come along
F half way to their principles in theii
r Vy*«**co t apd allow the blacks to vot<
e it they powete ««n«ui amount o
-property. Others, among those
o ing the highest seat in the Democrat!'
a family, disfranchised every man in an;
l. way related to Africa. Let Michigan
RIGHT 18 OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR;
in her advance in liberal principles,
wipe out the feul stian from the Const!-;
tution, and tell the .blacks they are men
if they behave like men—thus cresting
one of the strongest inducements for
them to be intelligent, industrious and
virtuous.— Adrian Michigan) Erp.
FRIENDSHIP.
f* r s
Friendship is the Cordial of Life, the
lenitive of our ***l the multi
plier of our equally ot
animation and of repose.. He who is
destitute of this blessing, amidst the
greatest crowd and pressure of society,
is doomed to solitude; and however sur
rounded with flatterers and admirers,
however armed with power, and rich
in the endowments of nature and offor
tune, has no resting place. The most
elevated station in life affords no ex
emption from those agitations and dis
quietudes which can only be laid to
rest on the bosom of a friend.
The sympathies even of virtuous
minds, when not warmed by the breath
of friendship, are too faint and cold to
satisly the social cravings of our nature
their compassion is too much dissipa
ted by the multiplicity of its objects,
and the varieties of d’stress, to suffer
it to flow long in one channel; while
the sentiments of congratulation are
still more slight and superficial. A
transient tear of pity, or smile of com
placency equally transient, is all we
can .usually bestow on the scenes of
happiness or misery, which we meet
with in the paths of life. But man nat
urally seeks for a closer union, a more
permanent conjunction of interests, a
more intense reciprocation of feeling;
he finds the w ant of one or more with
whom he can trust the secrets of his
heart, and relieve himself by imparting
the interior joys and sorrows, with
which every human breast is fraught.
He seeks, in short, another self, a kin
dred spirit, whose interest in his wel
fare bears some proportion to his own,
with whom he may lessen his cares by
sympathy, and multiply his pleasures
by participation.
The satisfaction derived from sur
veying the most beautiful scenes of
nature, or the most exquisite produc
tions of art, is so far from being com
plete, that it almost turns into uneasi
ness, when there is none with whom
we can share it; nor would the most
passionate admirer of eloquence or po
etry consent to witness thefrmost stu
pendous cxeitions, upon the simple!
condition of not being permitted to re
veal his emotions. So essential an in
gredient in facility is friendship, apait
trom thwmnone solid and permanent ad-;
vantag-dncADprbcures, and when viewed
in no cMWP lig4tt than as the organ of
communication, the channel of feeling
and of thought. But if joy itself is a
burden which the heart can ill sustain,
without inviting others to partake of it,
how much more the corrosions of anx
iety, the perturbations of fear, and
the dejection arising from sudden and
overwhelming calamity!— Rev, Robert
Hall.
Ignorance is Bliss. —Were the time
of our death foreseen, what a melan
choly character would it impart to the
pursuits and occupations of the human
race! If every man saw the moment
of his death continually before him,
how would his thoughts be fixed to that
fatal spot; and, upon its near approach,
the consideration of it would probably
absorb every other. With respect to
our fellow-«reatures, how would it poi
son the springs of enjoyment were
parents and children, husbands and
wives, brothers and sisters, able to cal
culate with certainty the peried of eachi
other’s lives! We should seem to be
walking among the victims of death—'
the scenes of hum <n existence would
lose ail cheerfulness, animation and
beauty.—The interests of society would
also sustain more serious injury Many
grea* and noble etacrprises would nev
er have been begun, could the persons
who, in the hope of life, engaged in
them, have foreseen that, before they
could be concluded, they themselves
would be snatched away by the hand
of death. Many discoveries, by which
great benefit has been conferred on the
world, would not have been elicited.
Few efforts probably would be made
to attain any object, the consequences
j ot which terminate with the lite of the
party, if he foresaw that they would be
intercepted by death. Who would
venture to engage in any lucrative em
oloyment, it ho certainly knew that the
benefit would not be even partially real
ized during the term of his mortal
existence? But happily for mankind
events are concealed—duties only are
made known.— R. Hall.
Fastidiousness. —With, respect to
that fastidiousness which disturbs the
right conduct of the understanding, it
must he observed that there are two
modes ot judging of anything; one, by
the test of what has actually been done
in the same way befom; the other by
what we can conceive may be done in
this way. Now this latter method ol
mere imaginary excellence can hurdly
t be a just criterion, because it may be
i in fact impossible to reduce to practice
s what it is perfectly easy to conceive;
s no man before he has tried, can tell how
i difficult it is to manage prejudice, jeal
ou*y, and delicacy, and to .overcome
all that faction whiefi the world oppo
r sea to speculation. Therefore, tht
fair practical rule seems to be, to com
r pare any exertion with all aimihir ex<
ertions which haws preceded it, and tc
f allow merit to anyone who has impro
JjEfj or at least, who has not deteriora
c tea Uie •Gtudard of excellence in hit
f own department of kuuwl««Jg*.—Smi
aey Smith. 4
ROCHESTER, N. Y„ THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1850.
THE WAY TO BE HAPPY.
A story is told of two travellers in
Lapland, which throws more light on
the art of being happy than a whole
volume of precepts and aphorisms.
Upon a very cold day in the winter
they were driving along in a slidge,
wrapped up in furs from head to foot.
Even their faces were mostly cover
ed; and you could see scarcely any
thing but their eyebrow*, aad there
were white and glistening with frost.
At length they saw a poor man who had
sunk down benumbed and frozen in the
snow.
“We must stop and help him,” said
one of the travellers.
“Stop and help him!” replied the
other; “you will never think ot stopping
on such a day as this! we are hall
frozen ourselves, and ought to be at
our journey's end as soon as possi
ble.”
“But I cannot leave this man to
perish,” rejoined the more human trav
eller; “I must go to his relief;” and
he stopped his sledge. “Come,” said
he, “come help me to rouse him.”
.“Not 1,” replied the other, “I have
too much regard for my own life to ex
pose myself to this freezing atmosphere
more than is necessary. I will sit here
and ktep myself ns warm as I can till
you come back.”
So saying, he resolutely kept his
seat, while his cutnpanion hastened to
the relief of the perishing man whom
they had so providentially discovered.
The ordinary means for restoring con
sciousness and activity were tried with
complete success. But the kind-heart
ed traveller was so intent upon saving
the life of a fellow creature, that he
had forgotten his own exposure; and
what was the consequence? Why, the
very effort which he made to warm the
stranger wanned himself! and thus he
had a twofold reward. He had the
sweet consciousness of doing a be
nevolent act, and he also found himself
glowing from head to foot by reason of
the exertions which he had made. And
how has it with his companion, who
had been so much afraid of exposing
himself? He was almost ready to
freeze, notwithstanding the efforts he
had been making to keep warm!
The lesson drived from tins little inci
dent is very obvious. We are all
travellers to a distant country. At
every step of our journey we find ether
travellers who need our friendly aid.
Nay, God has brought (hem around
our path in great numbers; and, far as
the eye can reach, we see their dense
and gloomy ranks. Now there are two
ways of meeting these objects of Chris
tian sympathy and brotherly regard.
We can go forward with the stern pur
pose of a selfish and unloving spirit,
saying in reply to every appeal which
is viddressed to our better feeling,
“Depart in peace; be ye warmed and
filled;” or wo can say, with the warm
hearted traveller, “I cannot see this
tuan perish;! must hasten to his relief.”
And the rule which we adopt for our
guidance in such cases, will determine
the question, whether we are to be
happy or unhappy. The man who
lives only lor himself cannot be hap
py. God does not smile upon him;
and his conscience will give him no
peace. But he who forgets himself in
his desire to do good, not only becomes
a blessing to others, but opens a per
petual fountain of joy in tm own bosom.
Dayspring.
The Duty of Prayer. —lf there is
a Supreme Being, author of this world
which we inhabit, who sustains it by
the power of his word, and who would
be known and adored by bis creatures,
it is the first duty of man to lift his
eyes to heavep, to recognize the
to whom he owes allegiance, to offer
him homage for all he has received at
his hands. What, then, is the man
who, acknowledging the Supreme Be
ing, never prays to him He is a
wretched being who has no God, who
is living alone in the world, attached to
no being but himself; who falleth back
upon his own heart, finds nothing there
with which he may commune, but his
pains, his disgusts, his troubles and
fears. He is that unhappy man who
expects nothing beyond the tomb,whose
hopes and desires are all confined here
below; who regards himself a vapor
formed by chauce, ready to dissolve
and vanish forever in the immensity of
non-existence; who believes himsell
created only for the fleet days that he
is to appear on the earth; who looks
abroad in the world as a man whom
chance has cast alone upon some iuac
cessabie island, where he may live
without a master, without a sovereign,
.without care or discipline expecting no
assistance, anticipating no better des
tiny importuning heaven with no future
desires, sending no wish or hope across
the abyss that surrounds him, and
seeking no alleviation of his wretched
condition, but in a listless indolence.—
Such is the man who never communes
with the God who made him.— Mas
sillon.
1 Poet Politicians. —Kossuth, Maz
ziui, Lamartine, the three heroes o
1848, were all, though with enormous
r differences in their relative values ant
positions, men belonging to the race o
poets—men in whom the heart though
—men who were moved by great im
pulses and lofty aspirations—men wh<
carried away by their itnngina
lion”—-men who were dreamers,
but whose dreams were of the stuff o
which our life is made.— Lon. Leader.
s A wife full of truth, innocence, ant
love, is the most beautiful flower a mat
can wear next to his heart.
GOD IS THE FATHER OP US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN-
FAST EATING*
The practice of eating our weals in
a hurry, so common among us Ameri
cans, has long been a fruitful theme of
ridicule with foreigners. It is a trite
observation that we do not eat our
food, in this country; we bolt it. The
celerity with which our business men,
especially, stow away huge quantities
of fish, flesh, and fowl into their stom
achs, is perfectly astonishing. Were
it not so general a practice, one would
conclude that they were engaged in
some disagreeable mechanical process,
which it was desirable to get through
with as expeditiously as possible—or
else, that they were cramming upon a
wager. Certain it is, that you rarely
see a live Yankee sit down coolly and
deliberately to a meal, as if he appre
ciated the appetizing qualities of the
delicacies and luxuries before him.
He regards all the different dishes in
the same light, viz: as so much gross
material to fill a void; and not as sub
stances gifted with rich essences—hid
den flavors, that require to be brought
out and analyzed. Not so with John
Boll; however large the quantity of
food he gorges at his meals, he never
dispatches it in a hurry. He sits
down to his roast beef as “to a day’s
work,” and proceeds calmly and care
fully to discuss each slice, as if he were
fully sensible of its delicious qualities,
and profoundly thankful to the gra
cious Providence that thus ministered
to his most earnest cravings.
Speaking of fast eaters, a modern
writer has the following remarks upon
the intellectual characteristics of this
class of men, which are quite novel and
original:—
“A fast eater may be a man of infor
mation, but he will never be a man of
taste; for why—he lacks the gift of ap
preciation. He may swallow the con
tents of many books, and gorge any
given quantity of facts in the same
manner as he gorges his food, but he
will never be a man that loves the
beautiful, either in art or nature. He
will not care a whit about sunsets, or
ihe choicest groupings of wood and wa
ter; and a panoramic exhibition, or
ihe scenery of a play-house, will suit
hirn better than the delicate graces and
minute finish of a Leslie or a Newton.
He may enjy the rich humor of a
Smollett, because it is at the same time
broad and obvious, but he will never
detect the subdued, quiet manifestation
of the same quality iri a Goldsmith, or
relish the the exquisite pleasantries, or
yet finer pathos of Charles Lamb; and
as for nothing the lights and shadows,
or feeling the'more subtle beauties of
poetry, how can it be expectetf of a
person that eats shad just as fast as he
eats halibut?”— Yankee Blade.
The Poetry of Steam.— This ‘lron
Age,’ we are told, is unfavorable to the
cultivation of poetry; its machinery is
incompatible with imagination; its rail
ways are the antipodes of nature; it is
ridiculous to think of putting Parnassus
under the plough, and starting a steam
boat on Helicon. All this mav be very
wise and very witty; but to* say that
industry and poetry are antagonisms,
(for this is the sum of the whole,) is to
confound poetry with verse making.
If the ancient Greek were evoked
from his toomb of ages, and set to wan
der through the wonderful country we
term unpoetical, he would be thrilled
with mingled delight and awe, and his
impressions would gush forth in a tor
rent of song. The manufactory would
be to him a world of poetry; the thun
der of its machinery would be more
truly than that of the tempest, the
voice of viewless but intelligent spirits;
and its productions, changing from
rude, shapeless masses, till they come
forth perfect in form and beauty, would
appear the woik of enchantment. The
fiery locomotive, skimming like the
wind along the surface of the earth,
gliding by the side of precipices, span
ning gorges and valleys, and plunging
with a rush and a roar into caverns as
black as Erebus, would take away hfa
breath; while the steamship, with her
banner of smoke, attempting impossi
bilities, yea, getting the better of them,
sailing defyingly up into the very eye
of the tempest, and laughing at the
laws of common nature, would seem
the realization of a dream that could
have haunted only the brain of a poet.
Chambers Journal.
Indestructibility of- Enjoyment.
—Mankind are always happier for
having been happy; so that if you make
them happy now, you make them hap
py twenty years from hence, by the
memory of it. A childhood passed
with a due mixture of national indul
gence, under fond and wise parents,
diffuse* over the whole of life a feeling
of calm pleasure; and in extreme old
age, is the very last remembrance
which time can orase from the mind of
man. No enjoyment, however incon
siderable, fa confined to the present
momeut. A man is the happier for
life, from having made once an agreea
ble tour, or lived for any length ol
time with pleasant people, enjoyed any
considerable interval of innocent plea
sure which contributes to render old
men so inattentive to the scenes before
them, and carries them back to a
world that fa past and to sceneß never
to be renewed again.
Courtship is often made up of the
fact that the girl call her beau a nobk
youth, a hero, a genius, while he calk
her a paragon of beauty and gentle
I ness, and so they keep tiikling eaci
i other until they get married, and tbei
the ipnMina
WHOLE NO. 141.
SHAKSFKARE* MIRROR FOR
WOMEN.
As in the tall glass called a psyche, a
lady gains a full length view of herself,
so that no point of person or dress may
be left disregarded, so, in Shakspeare’s
Mirror, a woman may obtain a psycho
logical reflex of her nature, that may
aid her to its spotless array, and to the
utmoat perfection in adornment of which
if is^ susceptible. She may learn how
4® preserve its intrinsic graces of puri
ty and innocence; It the same time she
is instructed how to deck it with becom
ing ornament of accomplishment and
refined culture.—She may be taught to
perceive how native charms are height
ened by suavity of demeanor; how a
fine understanding and a capacious
mind are set off by modest bearing; j
how external beauty is enhanced by
sweet manners and cheerful ease,
how intellect and good sense consort
with placability, forbearance and affec
tionate submission; how the gaiety of
heart and the gift of wit are tempered
with gentleness; how highest dignity
shows itaelF more truly in courtesy,
generosity, charity, kindness.
From the lady of the highest rank, j
to the humblest among women—from
her who is “crown’d the most imperial
monarch,” to her who “does the mean
est chores,” we all may read in his de
lineations our feminine resemblance.
From the virtuous majesty of Hermione
ar a Katherine of Aragon, down to
the homely coarseness of an Audrey,
ora Mopsa, each essentially bears the
generic stamp of womau. His scep
tred queens, his princesses, hts duch
esses, his gentlewomen, his yeomen’s
views, his young maidens, his serving
damsels, his country wenches, his
hostesses, his most delicate lady, his
mos blushing girl, his most reserved
vestal, his arrantest coquette, his wild
est spirit-sparkler, his sedatest thinker,
his most loving and loveable female
impersonation, or his vilest and most
odious one, however infinitely they
may vary, have all one feature in com
mon; they are pre-eminently womanly
iu all they do and say. The wit of
Rosalind and Beatrice, the ambition of
lady Macbeth, the conjugal faith of
Imogen, the wickedness ofGoneril and
Regan, the constancy of Helena, the
reticence of Cordelia, the intellect of
Portia, the wiles of Cleopatra, the inno
cence of Miranda, the charms of Tiola,
the gentleness of Desdemoou, tha sanc
tity and inoral purity of Isabella, the
anguish of Constance, the maternity
of Voiumnia, the shrewishness of
Katharine, ’he affection of Celia, the
flippancy ofLucetia, the passionate
love of Juliet, the sprightliness ofNer
issa, the insanity of Ophelia, are all as
markedly constrasted as day and night;
but they are all in themselves and in
their action and circumstances true to
the spirit of womaukind.— Mary Cow
din Clark.
FEMALE CULTURE.
The great entertainments of all ages
are reading, conversation, and thought.
If our existence after middle life is not
enriched by these, it becomes meagae
and dull indeed. And these will prove
sources of pleasure, just in proportion
to previous intellectual culture. How
is that mind to have subject matter of
pleasurable thought during its solitary
hours, which has no knowledge of the
treasures of literature and science,
which has made no extensive acquaint
ance with the distant and the past
And what is conversation between
those who know nothing? But on the
other hand, what delight is that mind
able to receive and impart, which is
able to discuss any topic that comes up
with accuracy, copiousness, eloquence
and beauty! The woman who possess
es this power can never fail to render
herself agreeable and useful in any cir
cle into which she may be thrown, and
when she is so she cannot fail to bo
happy. A full mind, a large heart, and
an eloquent tongue, are among the
most precious of human things. The
young forsake their sports and gather
round, the old draw nigh to hear, and
ail involuntarily bow diown the su
premacy of mind. These enuowments
add brilliancy to youth and beauty,
and when all other charms are depart
ed, they make old age sacred, venera
ble, beloved.
Proper use of Wit. —lt fa beauti
ful to observe the boundaries which
nature has affixed to the ridiculous,and
to notice how soon it fa swallowed up
by the more illustrious feelings of our
minds. Where fa the heart so hard
that could bear to see the awkward re
sources and contrivances of the poor
tui ned into ridicule Who could laugh
at the fractured, ruined body of a sol
dier? Who is so wicked as to amuse
himself with the infirmities of extreme
old age? or to find subject for humor
in the weakness of a perishing, dis
solving body Who fa there who does
not feel disposed £o overlook the little
peculiarities of the truly great and
wise, and to throw a veil over the ridi
cule which they have redeemed by the
magnitude of their talents, and the
splendor of their virtues? Who ever
thinks of turning into ridicule our
great and ardent hope of a world to
come? Whenever the man of humor
meddles with these things, be fa aston
ished to find that, in all the great feel
ings of their nature, the mass of man
kind always think and act aright; that
they are ready enough to laugh—but
they are ready enough to drive away,
with indignation and contempt, the
light fool who comes with the feather ol
wit to crumble the bulwarks of truth,
enrl In Kivtfllr tKa TtimnU.
Th* Would’* ExmsifibN.—The
Washington correspondent of the N.
Y. Commercial says:
"The world’s exhibition of produc*
tions of science, art, and general fa.
dustry, to take place in London, in the
year 1851, occupies the attention of m
large class of citizens of the United
States, and any useful information fa
regard to it, therefore, cannot fail to
interest your readers. It has been
promulgated in this country through
the official correspondence of the Sec
retary of State with Sir H. L. Bulwer,
the British Minister, that the arltdee
which may be imported into England
for the purpose of this greet exhibition
will be exemnt from duty on certain
conditions. T\> entitle them to (his pri
vilege, they must have received some
thing, a certificate, given under the
sanction of the Federal Government,
that the articles are worthy of admis
sion to the proposed great fair as speci
mens of skill or excellence, or as ob
jects of national curiosity. I learn
that the National Institute has been
designated by the State Department,
with the approbation of the President,
to take charge of everything connected
with this subject requiring the attention
of Government.
This learned and useful association
has referred the matter to a special
committee, at the head of which ts tha
Vice President of the United States,
and among the members of which is
the active and energetic superintendent
of the census, Mr. Kennedy. The
special committee have determined to
recommend that some prominent and
well-known society or public body in
each State shall be requested to decide
upon the appropriateness of articles
proposed to be sent to the exhibition,
and that decision so given shall have
the required authority of Government.
The American Institute, will, I pre
sume, be selected as the referee for
New York.
A particular lot of ground will be
set apart in London for each country
sending articles to the fair, aud the ex
pense of exhibiting them wiil be borne
by the British Government.”
Fear or Ridicule. —l know of no
principle which is more important to fix
in the minds of young people than that
of the most determined resistance to
the encroachments of ridicule. Give
up to the world, and to the ridicule
with which the world enforces its do
minion, every trifling question of man
ner and appearance: it is to toss cour
age and firmness to the winds, to com
bat with the mass upon such subjects
as these. But learn from the earliest
days to ensure your principles against
the perils of ridicule; you can no more
exercise your reason, if you live in the
constant dread of laughter, than you
can enjoy your life, if you are in the
constant terror of death.—lf you think
it right to differ from the times, and to
make a stand for any valuable point of
morals, do it, however rustic, however
antiquated, however pedantic it may
appear—do it, not for insolence, but
as a man who wore a soul of his own
in his bosom, and did not wait till it
was breathed into him by the breath of
fashion. Let men call you mean, if
you know you are just; hypocritical, if
you are honestly religious; pusillani
mous, if you feel that you are firm; re
sistance soon converts unprincipled
wit into sincere respect: and no after
time can tear from you those feelings
which every man carries with him who
has made a noble and successful exen
tion in a virtuous wuse.-Sydney Smith.
Good Listeners. —There are a few
good listeners in the world who make
all the use they might make of the un
derstanding of others, in the conduct of
their own. The use made ’he great
instrument of conversation is the dis
play of superiority, not the gaining of
those materials on which superiority
may rightly and justly be founded.
Every man takes a different view of the
question as he is influenced by consti
tution, circumstances, age, and a thou
sand other peculiarities; and no indi
vidual ingenuity can sift and examine a
subject with as much variety and suc
cess as the minds of many men, put in
motion by many causes, and affected
by an endless variety of accidents.
Nothing, in my humble opinion,* would
bring an understanding so forward, as
this habit of ascertaining and weighing
the opinions of others; a point in which
almost all men of abilities are deficient,
whoso first impulse, if they are young,
is too often to contradict; or, if the
manners of the world have cured them
of that, to listen only with attentive
ears, but with most obdurate and un
conquerable entrails. I may be very
wrong, and probably am so, but in the
whole course of my life, I do not know
that I ever saw a man of considerable
understanding respect tjie understand
ings of other as much as he might have
done for his own improvement, and as
it was just that he should do.— Sidney
Smith.
Heaven. —Do not the fair objects
with which even this ruined earth ia
brightened, tell ua that there must be
somewhere a heaven! From them we
get passing gleams of the beautiful
and the perfect. Like stray particles
of gold, they indicate the treasures of
the mine beneath. Like lights gleam
ing from some place window, they make
i known something of the splendor with
in. The various objects of sky and
earth point to scenes of excellence and
blessedness, of which they can only
shadow forth the cold outline. The
stars above us, as they give forth their
never-ceasing radiance,{unite in saying,
“there is a heaven—a heaven to which
our brightness is as darkness itself.”
The fields, the flowers, the streams of
earth all tell us, "there fa a heaven—a
lost paradise of which we are but the
faded relics—a paradise yet to be in
herited, of which we are the certain
pledges. Bonar.
The Asia and Euboea.— The last
outward passage ol the Euiopa from
this port to Liverpool was made in fen
days and twenty hours, uuquestionably
the shortest time ever made between
the two places, and beating by some
four or five hours the late voyage of
ihe Asia from Liverpool to Boston. The
Ama made her outward voyage from
Boston to Liverpool in nine days and
eighteen hours, which gees beyond any
thing that has yet been accomplished.
In the morning think what thou hast
to do, and at night ash thyself what
thou hast done.
vbaplfs asd Liberty!
▲roasel Aro«ie!! Aroase!!!
Ad unparalleled effort is to be made on
behalf of Chaplin and Liberty. Let the peo
ple meet in convention at the following time#
and place#. Let the friends in each locality
spare no pains or labor to secure a bouse
and a large attendance, and make provision
for strangers from a distance.
Hartland, Thors., Sept. Mb, 3 p.m.
Lockport, Frid., 6th, 10 a. m.
Careyville, Sat., 7th, 2p. m.
Le Roy, Sun., Bth,
Henrietta, Mon., 9th,
W. Bloomfield, Tues., 10th, 10 a. m.
Pen Yann, Thurs., 12th,
Williamson, Sun., Istb, 2 p.m.
Rose Valley, Mon., 16th,
Clyde, Tuea., 17th,
Port Byron, Wed., 18th,
Auburn, Thurs., 19th, 10 a. m,
Ledyard, Frid., 20th, 2r. u.
Northville, Sat., 21at,
Scipio, Sun., 22d,
Union Spring#, Moo., 23d,
Seneca Falls, Tues., 24th, 10 a.m.
Vienna, Wed., 25th, 2p. m.
These meetings are to be attended by Wit.
R. Smith, E. M. K. Glu, O. W. Clark,
James Bauh, Samuil J. May. George
Bradburn, and the Edmonson Sisters.
There is no time to be lost. TWENTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS must be raised
immediately. Come, friends! with your
hundreds, your fifties, your tens and your
mites.
By direction of the “Chaplin Committee.’*
J. C. JACKSON, Chn.
Samuel J. May.
Charles A. Wheaton, j ec
The North Star Fair.
The Women’s Association” of Philadel
phia intend holding their Second Annual
Fair, for the support of the North Star, on
Christmas week.
We feel that no great work can be rightly
done, unless men and women co-operate.
To our male friends, whom we found
belps-mete” for our first Fair, we look
earnestly and confidently. Brothers,, you will
not fail us
To secure the hearty co-operation of breth
ren and friends, at home and abroad, we be
lieve it is only necessary to announce our
intention.
Donations of Paintings, Engravings, Fancy
Needlework, articles of food, &c., will be
gratefnlly received by any member of the
Committee.
On behalf of the Association,
SARAH M. DOUGLASS.
Circular from the Chaplin Fund
Committee.
Believers in Jesus Christ—Lovers of Impartial
Liberty—Human Men and Women—to you
tee appeal!
Cazenovia, Aug. 22, 1850.
William L. Chaplin, a native of Massa
chusetts, long a resident of the State of New
York—the accomplished gentleman, the ripe
scholar, the upright statesman, the whole
souled philanthropist, the sincere, practical
Christian; William L. Chaplin is imprisoned
at the city of Washington, the Capital of
our Republic, charged.
First, With having assisted certain en
slaved fellow-men in their attempt to escape
from bondage; and
Secondly With an assault upon those who
arrested him, with an intent to kill them.
For these alleged offences, he is now held
in “duress vile” by the Police of the District
of Columbia, and also under a requisition of
the Governor of Maryland.
Now be it known to all men. that be did
not commit the second offence named above.
At the time of his seizure he he had no
weapon of violence about his person, nor does
he ever wer any; neither did he know that
his companions were armed; much less did
he counsel them to make resistance. All this
we know and do affirm. He was ignorant too
of the character of the persons wbo seized
him. No warrant for his arrest was an
nounced. A band of men, like ruffians, in
the darkness of night came upon him, on the
highway, and the first salutation he received
was a savage yell, and a blow that felled him
senseless to the earth. When he recovered
from the shock, he was in the hands of four
stout men, and therefore powerless.
The persons who were with Mr. Chaplin,
made an effort (unhappily without success)
to ave themselves frQm the monsters who
would return them into slavery. But no one,
of either party, was seriously injured, unless
it were the self sacrificing Chaplin, lie was
severely braised by the ruffians who captured
him.
The other charge, that he helped men in
their attempt to escape from slavery, if true,
should fix upon his good name the stigma of
no crime, unless it be a crime to act in obedi
ence to the commaud of Christ, to follow the
example of the good Samaritan.
Chaplin has the heart of a man, quickened
by the spirit of “the Son of man.” lie was
in that bad region of our country which is
infested by the worst of robbers, where men
and women are often found stripped, not so
much of their raiment, as of all the rights of
human beings; wounded, many of them in
their persons, but all of them in their feelings,
in the tendeiust relations of life; and left with
not indeed an much as half of what constitutes
the true life of men: Surely, if the poor
travellei between Jerusalem and Jericho was
to be pitied, and his relief attempted, Dot
withstanding the dangers of the place, much
more, every Christian must allow, ahould w;
attempt (at any hazards to ourselves) the
rescue of a fellow-man, who is subjected t<>
the terrible wiong of Ameitcan slavery.
W. L. Chaplin, if he has done all that the
charge alleges, has done no mure than the
good Samaritan would do; and for this we
honor, we love him. To deliver him flora
confinement, ihetefore, as soon as possible,
that be may renew and redouble hin gener
ous exertions in the cause of suffering hu
manity, we feel ourselves impelled by the
highest seLse of duty, and the deepest feel
ings ot sympathy with him, and brotherly
kindness to all men. We call upon all, wbo
have any love of Christian heroism, to help
us. The last mau who should be kept in
confinement, or subjected to any disabilities
in our country, or in our world, is the man
wbo is ever ready to spend his time, bis
strength, his all, to break the yoke of the
oppressor, and set the captive free! Sucb is
the man who is imprisoned in the jail of the
Foiled Slates!!
We plead, we insist, we demand, that his
prison door be thiown open, not no much for
hit sake (fur we know he counts it joy to suf
fer in the cause of humanity) as far our owo
sakea, that we may quicken our own and each
oiher’e love of liberty, by doing honor to h»a
exalted spirit of self-sacrificing philanthropy.
We came to this Cazenovia Convention
that we tnigb congratulate some r( the many
in this region, who have escaped from a worse
than Egyptian bondage, and advise with diem
sod their friends, as to the obligations that
reat upon us in regard to the nullioßs of our
countrymen, wbo are longing to be likewise
free. There have been with us about fifty
fugitives; but the fugitive's bravest friend has
not been here; and we have almoet forgotten
the fifty wbo ate safe, to our concern for the j
one who is left behind in the clutches of those
who bne no respect for the nghu of colored
men, or of the colored men’s friend.
Hie story of Chaplin’s captuie has been
told us by a devoted fellow-laborer; and roost
of the time of the Convention his been given
to the consideration of his case. We were
shown that the expenses, already incurred
in his behalf, the legal processes to which we
may be obliged to resort, and the services of
the ablest counsel, will demand of his friends
sn amount not less than twenty thousand
dollars. But what is that for ua to pay, if
those in out country, who profess to love the
practical application of the principles of Chris
tianity, will give their due proportion? No
one would be impoverished, nay, all would
be enriched; for whatever ii given, in such a
cause as this, iiso invested at to yield an in
comparably better interest than any soulless
corporations psy. Le|, then, the rich men
give their hundreds, and the poor widows
their nuites, that all rosy share in the joy of
Chaplin’s deliverance; and that the people of
our land and other lands may know, that
there are many thousands in ibis Republio,
who will not bow the knee to Baal, but respect
and love the Überaior, although he be chain
ed in a dungeon, for more than the Oppressor
of our fellow-men, though he walk at large
in the palace of our nation.
What is to be done fot Chaplin, must be
done quickly. A generous contribution, and
a more generous subscription were made by
the members of the Convention just closed.
And a large Committee were appointed to
hasten with this appeal to alf tint good and
true, and urge yon to respond at ©nee to this
demand upon your purses. Give freely.
Give without delay. Measure your contribu
tions by your abilities, and both the amount
and the readiness of your gifts by the GolJen
Rule—that there may be nothing wanting to
show the respect that is due to our brother,
and to defend him triumphantly against all
legal and illegal tyranny.
The following well known men, are the
Chaplin Fund Committee, by appointment
of the Cazenovia Convention:—
James C. Jackson, of Scott, Cortland
County, N. Y.; Joseph C Hathaway, of
Farmington, Ontario County, N. Y., Fred
erick Douglass and George W. Clark, of
Rochester; Charles A. Wheaton and Samuel
J. May, of Syracuse; George Lawson, of
Oriskany, Oneida County, N. Y.; William
R. Smith, of Macedon, Wayne County; G.
W. Johnson, of Buffalo; Cyrus P. Grosvenor,
of McGrawville, N. Y.; William Hamed.
16 John St., New York City; Joshua R.
Giddings, Ashtabula, Ohio; S. P. Chase, of
Cincinnati, Ohio; George W. Julian, of Indi
ana; Charles Durkee, Southport, Wisconsin;
James H. Collins, Chicago. Illinois; Charles
C. Foote, Commerce, Oakland County,
Michigan; Francies Jackson, Boston; John
G. Whittier, Amesburg, Mass.; Silas Cor
nell and Thomas Davis, Providence, R. I;
Julius F. Lemoyne, of Washington, Penn.;
E. M. Davis and C. D. Cleveland, of Phila
delphia; Samuel Fessenden, of Portland,
Maine; Rowland T. Robinson, Ferrisburgh,
Vi.; Ednah D. Thomas,* Aurora, Cayuga
Co., N. Y.; Rev. John Todd, D. D., Pitts
field, Mass.
To either of these persons, you may com
mit your donations or subscriptions of money,
and they will account for them to the Trea
surer of this Fund.' Through either of these
persons, also, you may transmit directly to
our beloved Chaplin, any tokens of your re
gard.
James C. Jackson is the Chairman of this
Chaplin Fund Committee; Charles A. Whea
ton and Samuel J. May, of Syiacuse, are the
Secretaries; Gerrit Smith is the Treasurer;
and to them, in connection with their col
leagues named above, the Conveution have
seen fit to entrust the management of the de
fence of Chaplin, and the expenditure of the
funds that shall be committed lo them fot that
purpose, of all which a full report will be giv
en in due season.
JAMES JACKSON, Chairman.
Charles A. Wheaton, )s.
Samuel J May. JSecretar.es.
O’Connell and the Reporters.—Anxi
ous as he was to be reported in England,
there were occasions whenO’Connell preferred
that what he said should not be printed there.
Of this an amusing anecdote has been given.
O'Connell was on a visit to Ireland, and in
dulging in long speeches of a most “combus
tible character,” when the government
thought fit to send over some short hand wri
ters to take down the harangues. “The first
appeatance of the Government reporters was
at a meeting at Kanturk. The gentlemen
were Englishmen,” says ‘he story, “and be
longing to Mr. Gurney’s reporting siaff
They came on the platform, and introduced
themselves to Mr. O’Connell. He shook them
by the hands, and said to those around thein f
“Nothing can be done here until these gen
tlemen are afforded every requisite accomjda
tion.” This was at once provided, and hav
ing assured Mr. O’Connell that they were
“perfectly ready,” and well provided for, he
came forward to address the people, and com
menced his speech, to the great dismay of the
Englishmen, in the Irish language. Having
explained to the assembly who they were and
how he humbugged them, he continued in the
same language to address to the meeting
everything he wished to convey to them: the
people laughing all the while at the English
reporters, whilh they joined very good hu
moredly in the laugh raised against them
selves.”
Russia and its Emperor.—This year, it
is said, the Emperot Nicholas will either
resign the crown or perish. Such a predic
tion, so positively asserted, might savor of
childishness if uttered in the garb of prophecy,
but those who are familiar with the secret
history of Russia know well that beyond the
period' of 25 years no Emperor is allowed
to reign in that land. There is, or at least
has been hitherto, a power behind the throne
which none of the soveieigns have been able
to resist or evade.—The dreaded family of
the Orlofts are the hereditary ministers of that
power. The unenviable distinction is theirs
to be by prescriptive right the agents special
ly employed. Alexander occupied the throne
for the restricted period —he failed to resign
and perished. Diebitchz fell into disgrace.
One of the Oroloffs appeared in |he camp.
Soon **fter the Genets] was reported dead..
OrJoff remained. Who next, was the ques
tion in met’a mouths. Duke Constantine
died suddenly. Orloffstill remained, and only
departed when the Duchess was announced
as having suddenly died. The maxims of
state policy which animate the ancient nobles
of the Empire, impose upon Nicholas s duty
he dare not despise—that duty is to resign or
accept his fate. A few months will confirms
prediction not thoughtlessly uttered.— N. Y.
Who is Old!—A wise man w ill never rust
out. As long as be can move and breath, be
will be doing something for himself, his
neighbors, or for posterity. Almost to the
hist hour of his life Washington was at work.
So were Franklin, and Young, and Howard,
and Newton. The vigor of their lives never
decayed. No rust marred their spirits. It is
s foolish idea to suppose we must lie down
and die because we are old. Who ia old 1
Not the man of energy; not the day-laborer
science, art, or benevolenoe; but he only
who suffers bis eneigiea to waste away, and
the springs of life to beoome motionless; on
whose hands the hours drag heavily, and to
whom all things wear the garb of gloom. I*
he old? should not be put; but, is he active*
—can he breathe freely and move with agility*
There are score* of grey-headed men wo
should prefer, in any important enterprise, to
those young gentlemen who fear and tremble
at approaching shadows, and turn pnle at a|
lion in their path, at a harsh word or a
trims.
The Pseha of Egypt ia taid to intend hav
mg an iron yacht, of 800 horse power, built in
Eoglaau, for bis own special use.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 5, 1850.
The North Star is sometime* sent to friend*
who do not take the paper, in the hope that they
may see fit to subscribe for it. Subscription* aad
donation* for the same any he safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N.r.
{^Wanted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
b«t such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
To our Subscribers. —ln several contem
porary anti-slavery journals, we have recently
seen a notice to “subscribers.” We shall
take the hint thus afforded us, and request all
subscribers in ai rears tor this paper to favor
us by remitting the amounts due, through the
post. Let each friend of the cause exert
himself to increase the circulation of our pa
per by obtaining one new subscriber.
Our English friends who have not paid
their subscriptions to the North Sfar, for the
year 1850, ere requested to forward them, toy
son, 5, Suramerhill Grove,
Tyne.—r. d.
Cazenovia Convention again.
The arrival of the hour tor the departgefi
of the mail ft ora Peterboro to Rochester,
found us only at the beginning of our tajj|||
giving an account of the Caaenovia Conven
tion. We shall now continue that letter,
though you have the official proceedings |f
that Convention spread before you in tfcflj
Dumber of the North Star. If We can am
nothing in detail, I may, perhaps give ii
illustration of its doings, and rhus help
swell the influence of one of the most in*
portant and remarkable demonstrations ever
made in this country.
It will be seen by the resolutions and ad
dresses, that the Convention assumed the
highest ground known as the basis of its
action. The rights of the slave, the wicked
ness of the slaveholder, and the duty of tbs
abolitionist, were viewed from a standard
point, above all the complicated arrangements
of men calling themselves nations. The
SLAVE WAS HERE REGARDED AS A MAN He
i was looked upon bv all who spoke,as a man,
and nothing less than a man His humanity
and not (he inhuman laws that brand him a*
a slave, was regarded as the criterion of om
relations and duties towards him. In this
point, the Convention was unanimous. The
laws of slavery were esteemed bat the in
fernal edicts of pirates—the religion of slave
holders was held to be a horrid and revolting
blasphemy against the majesty of Heaven,
and a moral war was declared against the
law and the religion thus specified.
These views were brought out especially
in reference to the case of Wm. L. Chaplin,
now in prison in the capital of this false and
shameleas Republic, on a charge 01 having
attempted to assist two men m their perilous
flight from slavery to freedom. In respect to
the rig hi fulness of rendering such assistance
as that ohatged against Mr. Chi pi in, there
was, we think, but one opinion. He was not
hound to respect the villanous enactments of
pirates and sconudrels. The passengers in
Mr. Chaplin’s wagon were men and having
committed «o crime, were free men, and as
fully entitled to their freedom as either the
honorable Mr. Toombs or the honorable Mr.
Stephens. He who denies this is either in
head a fool or in heart a knave and he who
tlfiirus it, affirms, at the same time, not only
me innocence, but the heroism and Christian
spirit of Mr. Chaplin.
The gtound was distinctly taken in the
Convention, that slave laws should be held
in perfect contempt; that it is the doty of the
slave to escape when he can; and that it is
equally the duty of every freeman to help the
slave in his flight to freedom when he can.—
For our part, We rejoice in every successful
escape from slavery; not more because it
leaves one less to be redeemed from bondage,
and is one more added to the ranks of free
dom, but because it serves to weaken the
whole system of slavety, by rendering slave
property insecute. Then, 100, we rejoice
equally when the inhuman laws of slavety
are boldly violated, since one such example is
worth many precepts, in bringing such laws
into the contempt in which they ought to be
held. This nation must be taught that theif
unnatural and jr.godly enactments will be
regarded by the true and the good as of no
binding force, and as only worth; to be tram
pled in tha dust. When Congress shall enact
the heaven-daring and humanity-insulting bill
now pending, making it criminal to obey God
in the matter of taking in the stranger, and
in deliveriog the spoiled out of the hand of
the spoiler, may there arise in the land ten
thousand Chaplins, who shall prefer dsath to
such a law.
But there is nothing, we apprehend, in the
whole ptoceediogs of the Caxenovia Conven
tion which wit] attract more universal atten
tion, or which will be more universally con
demned by a corrupt and slavery-bound press,
than the able address emanating from the
fugitive slaves in attendance, and addressed
to tbeir enslaved brothers and sisters at the
South. That addiesa will cause a howl to
go up from all the bloodhounds of our land.
It will be denounced as immoisl, cruel and
monstrous. And yet what does the address
inculcate that would not be done with all
freedom by any enslaved white man, and
which would not be looked upon as creditable
os his part to do by every white man in this
country! Nothing, absolutely nothin?. The
escaping, slave h told to escape from his bond
age, and take possession of sny and every
thing belonging to bis master which he may
need for his journey. This we deem to be
highly proper, and just what any American
citizen would be fully justified m doing wore
be reduced to slavery under sny form of gov
ernment. The slaveholders of this country
have no lights. They have forfeited their
rights by trampling upon the rights of oth
ers. Rubbers ami murderets have no right
to that which they plunder, and possessing
nothing which they have not sides, all that
they have rightfully belongs to the whole
number of slaves.
The address, however, speaks for itself.
Let that portion of the press which condemns
it, publish it if they dare. Thsy will find
that its senuroenu will have a lodgment in
the hearts of their reader*, and that ail the
sophistry whj§Nlpaorg may abed from their
perverted be unable to break
through the if tanked logic of that address.
The Free BMece question came up during
the last ifleitti of the Convention, and wa»
very ably dSmed by Gerrlt Smith, Mr.
May, Mr. lifefllilteld, and Mr. Prye. Mr.
Smith is an 4p«iner,aod spoke with earnest
ness ie favor of the resolution recommending
abstinence frost slave produce.
Our sheet is nearly full, and we conclude
theae remark*4y recommending to our read
ers the reporj of the Convention as published
in snother pagf of this number of the NaUb
Stir.— r. o.
Letter No. 11.
Mr ntan Jlaa. Howrrr.—l hive had the
pleasure, daring the list few days, of recre
ating among the hills of Peterboro, and of
enjoying hospitality of the noble Genii
Smith, of vtyoin I made mention in my last
week’s letter,
I you, and many other of
luh friends, to be with
of the American John
the sound of his
across the wide Allan
sof disinterested good
ilmott unparalleled geri
le ny myself the gratifi
estimony to the charac
led, large-hearted and
in of princely fortune,
rich he devotee to pur
and to the advancement
dom. Selfishness and
iknown to him. He ia
ole human family, and
ra of oppression and
tes all the virtue and
of an uncompromising
e he entertains decidec
course of action to br
jnnected with the anti
is so catholic in spirit
1 fellowships ail whon
jre in their advocacy o
reat benefactor to iht
ed people of this ooun
n the last few years
of them forty acres o
ie, his heart, and hii
sd to them and ever]
id injured son of A fries
r kind and sympathizing
owever, ate not limitet
e. He has bestowed
n months, fifty thousand
money, on poor whit*
ot imagine, dear Mrs.
an is esteemed, loved
venerated, and even idolized
Although he has long been known as tk
great man of Peterbnto, he lives in a sraal
white cottage, situated about a mile from the
village. 1 cannot even designate his dwelling
s cottage ornte. Simplicity is its chief char
acteristic, as it is of nil the anangementi
connected with his itul| hospitable home.
His own beautiful spirit seems to me dif
fused throughout the Members of his house
hold. Love pervades each look, and ward
and action. It is indeed a privilege fomingh
with this happy Christian family fora brie
season. Among the guests here assembled
is our mutual triend, Frederick Douglass. Si
you will easily picture what a good time
(to use a Yankeeism) we are having! am
with what animation conversation issustained
Yesterday, an Anti-Slavery Convenlior
was held at Peterboro. The morning’s meet
ing was convened in the Baptist Church. I
was numerously attended. After the prelim
inary exercise* of prayer, praise, and reading
the scriptures, F. Douglass addressed the
assembly for an hour and a half, in his own
peculiarly earnest, eloquent, and felicitoui
manner. The afternoon's gathering tool
place in a fine grove, adjacent to “/Ac oli
home of Gerrit Smith, in Peterboro. Thi
time—the place—the circumstances combiner
to render the occasion one of deep interest.—
The speaker was himself powerfully im
pressed, and his words came home witf
double power to the hearts of his hearers.—
Verily, “»l was good to be there."
Before this reaches you, you will have seer
the full account of the proceedings of the
Cazenovia Convention; ao there is the lest
occasion for my adding much to the slight anc
imperfect sketch 1 lately sent you.
I will, however, just aav that the meeting:
held there on the second day, were convenec
in. a beautiful orchard, and were numerous]]
attended. The speaking was, for the mosi
part, good. Considerable reference was madr
to the case of Mr. Chaplin. A Committee
was formed, whose duty it should be to take
measures for using every available instru
mentality to promote his liberation. Thh
Committee haa decided to test the feeling*
of the Northern States, by going out and
striving to raise twenty .thousand dollars fot
defending Mr. Chaplin. Some among them
hope—some fear but all are stimulated tt
active exertion.
Iu my former letter, I made reference to tht
Edmonson giila. They are warmly attached
to Mr. Chaplin; and coute qui coule, one ol
them was resolved to say a few words at the
Convention on the subject of his arrest and
imprisonment. Your eyes and heart, deal
Mrs. Howilt, would have overflowed, could
you have heard and seen that young and noble
hearted girl appeal, in words of simple tnd
touching eloquence, m behalf of her dear
friend, now lying in prison, for performing ao
act of humanity to bis brother man.
The excitement, however, did not reach its
height, until F. Douglass arose and appeal
ing, (as it were over the heads of theF.dnton
son girls,) he called upon the men and
women ol Cazenovia to awake, arise,”
and do their duty to thems* Ives—to their
brother man sad to their G >d. It was s
moment of thrilling interest, and will long be
remembered by many who witnessed the
scene.
1 must say adieu. We are oo the eve of
leaving Peterboro for Syracuse. Tomorrow
there is to be a 4< Chaplia meeting” there.
1 treat that the liberal portion of our British
press will do as they are wont to do—come
out boldly and fearlessly ie defence of the
right,” end consequently in defence of Mr.
Chaplin. ,y*'
Nothing ean evidence to tlie world more
clearly the hollow hypocrisy and mockery of
this false Republic, than the mearoermtioo oi
(he noble man abort mentioned.
Dwylon, Sayre*, and Hams aie still kept
in jail on ike chaige of aiding slaves to es
cape. They ate retained by the very men
who rail against the tynmoy of Austria, and
who stretch out their arms to receive the
Hungarian fugitives therefrom yeti believe
it would be quite as easy to escape from the
dungeons of the Imperial fortress of Austrian
Spielberg, as from the Republican slave prisons
at Washington.
Ever sincerely yours,
JULIA GRIFFITHS.
Glen Haven Watsk Cure, i
Aug. 85, 1850. S
To the Friends of Freedom. —Doubtless
your-hearts are, as is my heart, stricken
with great sorrow at the arrest and imprison
ment of William L. Chaplin, the true-hearted
friend of the enslaved, the ripe scholar, the
Christian gentleman, the noble, highly accom
plished man. That he should this day be in
a southern prison, is quite as much our fault
as bis; for bad our duty been done, had none
of us even wavered or faltered, had our vir
tue been proof against all temptation, and
our faith in God been unshaken* and out work
correspondent to faith, nu slave would
this day have worth his cfc»jAs, not Chaplin,
Drayton and Sayres been lying in jail at Wash
ington City. The rtition would have been
well-nigh free from this cuise of curses by
this time. O! the fault is at our door and not
at hia. What has he done that he should lie
in jail Has he stolen the property of anoth
er Has he assaulted the person of any oi
the citizens of the District Does his life
mark him as a man who lives by rapine and
bloodshed No 1 What then is the matter 1
He has lived out the principles of the Declar
ation of Independence, he has honored Jesu*
Christ by honoring his poor oppressed brother.
He has violated ihe law of slavery, which u
glorifying the law of freedom. He has done
what cotoards call a rash thing, what prudent
men call a foolish thing, what pro-slavery
men and slaveholders call a wicked thing,
but what God and honest men approve, ao<j
love and cherish him all the more for hav
ing done. Let no man who wishes bis chib
dren never to wear chains, who desires th.i
government to be saved from destruction and
general execration, who loves law and ordei
instead of anarchy and weltering chaos, uuei
a word of reproach against W. L. Chaplin.
What in God’s name should he have done!
Turn traitor make of himself an apostate,
let hia own soul die within him for want ol
the sustaining power which deeds of mercy
always give? Never! If he comes foitli
from that prison only to be buried, let none
of his friends or the friends of the slave think
such thoughts. Is it needful to tell you, that
a roan who lives at Washington necessarily
aids slaves to escape, if he remains true to him
self! Dues he develope in his daily life the
truths of the Gospel and of Liberty Wbat
does be but quicken m the slave a desire foi
freedom Does he make manifest bis regard
for liberty and his detestation of slavery in
his conversation with whites? What does this
all amount to, but to impress on them the
image of himself, which is reflected on the
slave What is the true man to do with the
spiritual influences which emanate from him,
and which bolt and bar cannot confine?
These settle on the slave's biow like a halo
of inspiration, and silently stimulate him to
efforts for his freedom. Let the preacher of
cautiousness go to Washington and do belter
than has Mr. Chaplin if be can. It is so easy
for the heartless to And fault. Faull-ffatftftg,
from time immemorial, has been a capital
easily acquired and a like easily invested. One
thing is true. If to give innocent men their
freedom which is unjustly withheld from them
is a ctime, then W. L. Chaplin is criminal
in his late attempt. If not, he is not criminal.
The law of slavery makes it an offence; but
can slavery make a law which all should not
disobey Slavery is violence, slavery is lust
made practical, slavery is theft, slavery is
murder, slaveiy is lying of the most atrocious
character, slavery is defiance of all law such
as Heaven provides for the government of
men. There is nothing mean, nothing
lothsome, nothing detestable that is not legii
timate to slavery. It whips women, murders
men, kills children. It breeds ignorance,
begets idle men, creates poverty, establishes
caste. It makes distinctions where I rod has
forbiddon them, destroys distinctions where
Nature has set them up. It rears its super
structure inversely to all the fundamental
principles on which Divine Wisdom builds,
and is not, nor can it be other than the most
stupendous fraud, the sum of all villanies.
Would you have a man deliberately seat
himself and see this Python wrap hia enor
mous folds around his fellowß, crushing bone,
sinew, and muscle to a jelly, and not make a
bold stroke for their deliverance? Shame on
you if you would! What if he has not been
successful in hia effort* Must a man always
be insured success before he is at liberty to
act? Is he any the less to beJbved,who, act
ing with the calmness and deliberateness
which stamp all the conduct of W. L. Chap
lin, ventures to act rightly against great odds*
Then Jesus and the apostles, the early’Chris
tians, and ihe old heroes of 76, and Garrison,
and Phillipps, sod Smith# and many of you,
are aa open to condemnation as Chaplin. No
man has acted more wisely in this enterprise
than this great man, no man has struck migh
tier blows, not even Wo. Lloyd Garrison,
whose hand has for the last twenty years
rained blowa like a storm of hail on the helm
stead of slavery till it reels and staggers like a
street drunkard, can easily bear off the palm.
For the man who, knowing hia jeopardy and
for pure love of the enslaved and down-trod
den, makes bis mind up to the performance of
hia duty though it send him to prison and to
death, is lie not a here whose crown is of
the richest kind? Hear hia first w ords from
his prison, while as yet no eye bad looked
on him but such aa flashed ont hate and ven
geance. How calmly and nobly he bears
himself. What glorious words these, to come
from bis pen while in bis cell.’ After an
nouncing his capture, he aays: The news
paper accounts are exaggerated, of course.
In a day or two they will get corrected,
You know me, and know Chat 1 would do noth
ing, except from the deepest conviction* of
imperative duty. Let kk ente eat too to
CKEAiea, ENTIRE AND CHEERFUL CONFIDENCE
in God. He reigns and dispel these
CLOUD, UNCERTAINTIES. LIOHT SHALL SHINE
OUT OF OBSCURITY AND INTEGRITY WUJU ST
VINDICATED. GJorioua. m»mi muittul CLiia-j
ian! noble representative of freedom! Ifoera 1
shall be a prophecy that shall have speedy
fulfillment, if the spirit of liberty sod justice
among the abolitionists and in oar eoart of
law has not otterly peftshed. Come, then,
men, women, and chtldien! Come Whig,
come Democrat, come all, without reference
to sect, mx,or party, eome to this noble man's
defence and deliverance, open yovt purees
and pour out your money. He ia the imper
sonation ot this Cause, its moat prominent
representative. In him, Slavery strike** at all
of us. In him it maddens our cause. At the
Caxenovia Convention a Committee of twen
ty-live was chosen, consisting of prominent
men over the Free States.
James C. Jackson, of Glen Haven Water
Cure in Chairman; Samuel J. May and
Charles A. Wheaton, of Syracuse, Secreta
ries; Get rit Smith, of Peterboro, Treasurer.
Persona are appointed to visit different
sections of the Free States, and collect the
sura of $30,000, to protect bim. This
money must be had in thirty days. Will yon
not bestow your silver? Oh, you v. ill I know,
or freedom is but a name and your love for it
a shadow. Small sums, and when the sums
ate large certificates of deposit may be trans
mitted either to Germ Smith, Peterboro, or
to James C. Jackson, Samuel J. May, or
Clarke A. Wheaton, Syracuse, N. Y.
Papers friendly to Chaplin and Liberty
throughout the free States are requested to
publish the fact of the appointment uf a Com
mittee with the name of it, officers, to whom
(a n directed above,) all moneys may be sent.
Respectfully
Your Fellow Citizen,
JAMES C. JACKSON.
Convention of Slave* at Caxenovia.
We stop the press, to ssy, that this was t
glorious Convention. The position taken h;
the slaves and by the great Convention i;
“liberty or revolution.”
The President of the Convention was Fred
flick Dcugiaas, and he presided well. Th«
Convention agreed to raise $20,000 for th<
case of the noble Chaplin, and recommende;
him to the National Convention at Oswego a:
the Liberty Party candidate for the Presi
dency.
Mr. Joseph C. Hathaway, who on learn
"ingof the outrage upon Mr. Chaplin, instant
ly.#epaired to Washington to see him, re
ported that he found him in the prison badl 1
wounded. Hts head was gashed to the skull
and his body badly bruised. He was on thi
recovery and was comfortable. Chaplin de
nies ’.hat he shot, or thst he had arms at all
S*:d that upon finding his wheels blocked
he struck his horse and turned his head t;
the wheel and was struck with bludgeon
and knocked off from his seat, —the blov
made the wound on his head, and he is nov
recovering from his injuries. The first notin
of the assault upon him was the blocking o
the wheels, and an unearthly noise near him
which he supposed was done by high-way
men. He did not suppose he was arrestei
for aiding slave*, until he heard the voice o
Mr. Goddard, tne policeman, which he knew
—He said the blow on his head must hav<
killed him but for his hat. ,On his recover;
from it, he found himself on his back upon
the giound. with two or three ruffians upoi
him, some with their knees upon his breast
and some upon his side, brandisbiog bowii
knives and hatchets, and swearing they wool*
lake his life. Hearing the voice of Goddard
he asked him to save his life, which he did
He had no doubt he would have been mur
dered by them, had not Mr. Goddaid inter
posed to save him.
Mr. Chaplin was suipriaed’at seeing Mr
Hathaway, but he presented himself to him
the same serene, dignified, cheerful, loving
btave and gentlemanly man, that he ever was
in his intercourse with the world.
Mr. Hathaway called on Gov. Sewan
upon his arrival, but Gov. Seward had re
turned to New York. He then called or
Hon. S. P. Chase of Ohio. Mr. Chase gav<
him special attention and readily served him
in behalf of Gen. Chaplin. He gave him t
letter to the Marshal, and the Marshal gavt
him an order to the keeper to admit him, am
expressed himself kindly and respectfully it
regard to his prisoner. The jailer seetnec
very much attached to him. The food iba
is sent Chaplin, he distributes to the othei
prisoners, and orders his own food, wich is
regularly cooked tor him by a colored woman
at the price of three dollars a week. Mr
Hathaway, and his friend, spent the whoh
of Sunday with Chaplin in the prison, am
it was the happiest Sabbath he ever spent
The hall in which they were, lays in front o
the cells in which the prisoners sre confined
He has to return to his cell at five o’clock
every evening, and continue therein unti
eight o’clock the next morning. He wat
evidently regarded by those in charge of him
as well as by the citizens of the District as s
royal prisoner.
Gen. Chaplin spoke of his friends in New
York, in terms of the highest affection. lit
mentioned scores of them by name, and or
being told that they would exert their utmosi
in his behalf, replied, it was just like them
he knew they would.
We can give no more »f this Convention.
The doings will all be published next week:
and in the meantime, our friends may be pro
paring to read the most spirited, brave, anc
radical declarations they have ever read
The sentiment that runs through the whole,
is, “Liberty or Revolution.” When Mr.
Hathaway returned to the cars, he was at
tended by the Hon. Mr. Chase, Giddings,
Julian, Hale, Durkee, it c., and every mani
festation was evinced to make his stay ageee
able, and his object prosperous.
Hon. Mr. Stephens did not give his slave
his freedom, as reported. He sold him while
upon the leg, and that was a means of setting
the police on Chaplin.— It. P. Piper.
An Exciting Slave Case. —On Thursday
afternoon, the Monongahela House was
thrown into a most terrible confusion by Mr.
John Drennan of Van fiuren, Arkansas, who
announced the startling fact that a female
slave, about fourteen years of age had dis
appeared while he and bis lady were at din
ner. As was very natural in such a case, he
became vexed and angry, and had some sharp
words with the proptietor. It is scarcely ne
cessary to add that he neither gained not lost
by this, as Mr. Crosaraan does not suffer
himself to be guided by any other feeling
than his sense of duty. A servant who wa*
strongly suspected of being in the affitir was
promptly discharged.
The girl is fairer than a mulatto, and is
said to have Indian blood in her veins. The
time chosen for her escape was, ss stated
above, the dinner hour. She sent her friends
whoevrr they were, np stairs for her bsggsge,
but a trunk 'in-longing to the master was ta
ken, by mistake. Mr. Drennan went to of
ficer Hague and offered him a reward for the
recovery of the fugitive and the trunk. Mr.
Hague said he thought he could get the
trunk, but he feared the girl was beyond his
reach. He was right in both points of his
answer. He did recover his trunk, but the
slave has not been heard of Moea.-PitUburgh
Journal.
Washington, Aug. 86.
Some runaway slsves fiom Virginia, who
pasted here for free for a long tune, were
captured and restored to then owners this
evening.
Aug. 87. The negro who wasairgited
oino excitement; citizens who have employed
limdming^befcat*^2
SpuraTteW to havetamoiadnil^i;.
CaseMTift Ctaveittei.
The meeting of fugitives from Slavenr and
iheir friends held in CsMoexia, New York,
31* sod 33d day of August, iB6O, oommaosd
by appointing Samuel J. May, as temporary
Chairman, and Samuel Thomas, J»., as tam
porory Secretary.
Samuel Wells, J. W. Logoen, Charles
B. Ray were appointed a Committee to eeat
nets officers for the Convention.
Germ Smith, Ms, y Spnngatesd, James
Baker, Fordyce Riee, Caroline Brown were
appointed the Business Committee.
The following resolution, oflered bv James
C. Jackson, was adopted.
“Whereas William L. Chaplin is, contrary
to the laws of God and man, suffering im
prisonment; and whereas the litigation, and
various measure#, which, we trust will result
in his liberation, and in the establishment of
righteous principles, will require the expendi
ture of large sums of money: Resolved,
therefore, that this Convention proceed to
appoint a Committee, to be entitled “The
Chaplm Committee,” whose business it shall
be 10 adopt such measures, as they shall
judge fit to effect bis liberation, and pee
cnoie the cause of law and justice; and that,
for the purpose of supplying ’hemselves with
means for accomplishing these objects, we
advise them to raise, within thirty days, twen
ty thousand dollars.”
The following persons were appointed to
nominate a “Chaplin Committee/' Joseph
C. Hathhway, William R. Smith, Elia
Smith, Eleaaer Seymour, James C. Jackson.
Mm. F. Rice, Phebe Hathaway, and
Louisa Burnell were appointed to nominate a
committee of females, w hose duly it sould be
to obtain by contributions of teo cents each
sufficient means to purebas a silver pitcher
and a pair of silver goblets and a gold medal
with appropriate inscriptions thereon—to ob
tain the same, and to present them to William
L. Chaplin, as a testimonial of the high regatd
of the friends of th 6 slave for his distinguish
ed services in the cause of humanity. (The
names of the persona composing this Commit
tee will appear in our next.)
The following persons, being Dominated for
the officers of the Convention, were ap
pointed.
Frederick Douglass, President.
Joseph C. Hathaway, Francis Hawley,
Chas. B. Ray, Chas. A. Wheaton, Vice
Presidents.
Charles D. Miller, and Anne V. Adams,
Secretarys.
Letieis from S. R. Ward, Wm. Goodell,
and Wm. H. Burleigh were read.
On motion of Mr. Loguen, a Committee
were appointed to report an address or ad
dresses from the fugitive slaves. This Com
mittee consisted of J. W. Loguen, Janies
Baker and E. L. Platt.
Joseph C. Hathaway gave a deeply in
teresting account of his and Miss Theodosia
Gilbert’s late interview with Mr. Chaplin in
the jail of the city of Washington. Mr,
Chaplin was not armed, and had no suspicion,
that the persons in his carriage were armed.
Mr. Loguen reported two addresses from
the fugitive slaves—one to the slaves, and the
other to the Libeity Party. After an ex
tended discussion upon the former, they were
both adopted.
The following persona, lteing nominated,
were appointed to constitute the Chaplin com
mittee: James C. Jacksor, Joseph C. Hatha
way, Samuel J. May. Charles A. Wheaton,
[G. W. Clark, Wm. R. Smith, George W.
Lawson,Cyrus P. Grosvenor, G. W. Johnson
JofN. Y.; Francis Jackson, John G. Whittier
|of Mass.; Silts Cornell, Thomas Davis of
j R. I.; C. D. Cleveland, E M. Davis of Pa.;
(C. C. Foote of Mich.; Hon. J. R. Giddinga
Jof Ohio; Hon. G. W. Julian la.; Hon. O.
Durkec, Wia.
The series of 17 resolutions, reported by
i Gerrit Smith as Chairman of the Business
Committee were after much discussion
adopted.
A contribution was then called for to meet
the expenses incurred m visiting Mr. Chaplin,
iind in oilier inatere connected with his case.
The sum of $l6B 79-100 was raised in an
swer to this call.
Vote of thanks to Mrs. Wilson tor the use
of her gtove.
Each session of the Convention was epeoed
with prayer: and Geoige W. Clark and the
Edmonson sisteis, who were once in slavery,
j favored the Convention with occasional songs.
Convention adjourned.
A Letter to the American Slaves front
those who have fled from American
Slavery.
Afflicted and beloved Brothcrs:—The
meeting, which sends you this letter, is a
meeting of runaway slaves, We thought it
well, that they, who had once suffered, as
you still suffer, lhat they, who had once
drank of that bitterest of all hitter cops,
which you are at II compelled to drink of,
should come together for the purpose of
making a communication to you.
The chief object of this meeting is, to tell
you what circumstances we find ourselves in
—that, so, you may be able to judge for your
selves, whether the prize we have obtained is
worth the peril of the attempt to obtain it.
The heartless pirates, who compelled us to
call ihem “master,” sought to pereuadfe us,
as such pirates seek to persuade yoo, that the
condition of those, who escape from their
clutches, is thereby made worse, instead ot
better. We confess, that we had our fears,
that this might be so. Indeed, so great was
our jgnorance, that we could not be sore, that
the abolitionists were not the friends, which
our masters represented them to be. When
they told us, that the abolitionists, could they
lay hands upon us, would buy and sell us,
we could not certainly know, that they spoke
falsely; and when they told ua, that abolition
ists are in the habit ot skinning the black
man for leather, and of regalling their can
nibalism on bis, flesh, even such enormities
seemed to os to be possible. But owing to
the happy change in our circumstances, we
are not as ignorant and ctedulous now, as we
once were; and if we did not know it before,
we Know it now, that slaveholders are aa
great liars, aa they are great tyrants.
The abolitionists act the part of friends
and brothers to ns; and our only complaint
against them is, that there rae so few of them.
The abolitionists, on whom it is safe to rely,
are, almost all of them, members of the
American Anti-Slavery Society, or of the
Liberty Party. There are other abolitionists:
but most of them are grossly inconsistent;
and, hence, not entirely trustworthy abolition
ists. So inconsistent are they, as ttf vote for
anti-abolitionista for civil rulers, and to ac
knowledge the obligation of (laws, which
they themselves interpret to be pro-slavery.
We get wages for our labor. We have
schools for our children. We hsveopponuni
ties to hear and to learn to read the Bible—
that blessed book, which all fot freedom,
notwithstandieg the lying slaveholders says
it» all for slavery. Some of ua take pert in
the election of civil rulers, ludeed, bet for
the priests sod politicians, ibe influence ot
most of whom is against ns, our condition
would be every way eligible. The priests
and churches of the North, are, with com
paratively few exceptions, in league with the
priests and churches of the South; end this,
of itself, ia sufficient to account for the fact,
that a caste-religion and a negro-pew are
found at the North, as well aa at the South.
The politicians and political parties of the
North are connected with the politicians and
political partiea ot the South; and hence,
the political arrangements and interests of the
North, as well as its ecclesiastical arrange
ments and interests, are adverse to the color
ed population. But, we rejoice to know, tbs*
all this political and accluf jitmfep* f**I”** 1 ou
ike wan** Tka irfr American
democracy has be
fome glaring; and, every year, multitudes,
roce Eluded b, them, come to repudiate
them. The credit of this repudiation is dee,
in a great measure, to the American Anti
ilayery Society, to the Liberty Party, and to
Anti-sectarian meetings and conventions. The purest sect on Earth is the rival of, instead of, 
one with, Christianity. It daaervjM not to b<
trussed with a deep and honest and earnest re
form. The temptations, which beset th<
pathway of each a reform, are too might 3
for it to resist. Instead of going forward foi
God, it will slant off fiir itself. Heaven grant
that, soon, not a shred of sectarianism, nor 1
shred of the current religion, nor a ahied o
the current politics of this land, may remain
Then will follow, ay, that will itself be, the
triumph of ebriatiaaity: and, then, white men
will love black men, and gladly acknowledge
that all men have equal righta. Come, blessed
day—come quickly.
Including our children, we number in
Canada, at least, twenty thousand. The total
of our population in the free States far ex
ceeds this. Nevertheless, srs we are poor,
we can do little more to promote your de
liverance than pray for it to the God of the
oppressed. We will do whit we can to sup
ply you with pocket compasses. In dark
nights, when his good guiding star i* hidden
from the flying slave, a pocket compass great
ly facilitates his exodus. —Besides, that we
we are too poor to furnish you with deadly
wea|>ons, candor inquires the admission, that
some of us would not furnish them, if we
could; for some of us have become non-resist
ants, (and have discarded the use of these
weapons: and would say to you: “love your
enemies; do good to them, which hate you;
bless them that curse you; aod pray for them,
which despitefully use you.” Such of us
would be glad to be able to say, that all the
colored men of the North are non-resistants.
But, in point of fact, it is only a handful of
them, who are. When the insurrection of
the Southern slaves shall take place, as take
place it will, unless speedily prevented by
voluntary emancipation, the great mass of
the colored men of the North, however much
to the grief of any of us, will be found by
your side, with deep-stored and long-accumu
ated revenge in their hearts, and with death
dealing weapons in their hands. It is not to
be disguised, that a colored man is as much
disposed, as a white man, to lesist, even unto
death, those who oppress him. The colored
American, for the sake of relieving his color
ed brethren, would ao mote hesitate to shoot
an American slaveholder, than would a white
American, for the sake of delivering his
white brother, hesitate to shoot an Algerine
slaveholder. The State motto of Virginia:
“Dealh to Tyrants;” is as well the black
man’s, as the white man’s motto. We tell
you these things not to encourage, or justify,
your resoit to physical force; but, simply,
that you may know, be it to yout joy or
sorrow to know it, what yourNoithren color
ed brethren axe, in these important respects.
This truth you are entitled to know, however
the knowledge of it may affect you, and how
ever you may act, in view of it.
We have said, that some of us are non-re
sistants. But, while such would dissuade
you from all violoace toward the slave
holder, let it not be supposed, that they re
gard it as guiltier 'ban those strifes, which
even good men are wont to justify. If the<
American revolutionists had excuse for shed
ding but one dropnof blood, tneu have the
American slaves excuse for making blood to
flow “even unto the horse-bridles.”
Numerous as are the escapes from slavery,
they would be far more so, were you not em
barrassed by your misinterpretations of the
rights of property. You hesitate to take even
the dullest of your master’s horses—whereas
it is your duty to take the fleetest. Your
consciences suggest doubis, whether in quit
ting your bondage, you are at liberty to put
in your packs* what you need of ford and
clothing. But were you better informed, you
would not scruple to break your master’s
locks, and take all their money. You are
taught to respect the rights of property. But,
no such rights belong to the slaveholder.
His right to property is but the robber-right.
In every slaveholding community, the rights
of properly all center in them, whose coerced
and unrequited toil has created the wealth,
in which their oppressors riot. Moreover, if
your oppressors have rights of properly, you,
at least, are exempt from all obligation to re
spect them. For you are prisoners of war,
in an enemy’s country—of a war, too, that ,is
unrivalled for its injustice, cruelly,, meanness.
—and therefore, by all the rules of war, you
have the fullest liberty to plunder, burn, and
kill, as you may have occasion to do to pro
mo e yuui escape.
We iegret to be obliged to say to you, that
it is not every one of the Free States, which
offers you ao asylum. Even within the
last year, fugitive slaves have been arrested in
some of the Free States, and replunged into
slavery. But, make your way to New York
or New England, and you will be safe.' It is
true, thatenven, in New York and New
England, there are individuals, who would
rejoice to see the poor flying slave cast back
into the horrors of slavery. But, even these
ate restrained by public sentiment. Ii is
questionable whether even Daniel Webster,
or Moses Stuart, would give chase to a fugi
tive slave; and if they would not, who would?
—for the one is chief-politician and the oilier j
chief-priest.
We do not forget the industrious efforts, 1
which are now making to get new facilities atj
the hands of Cougress for re-enalaving those,
who have escaped from slavery. But we can
assure you, that, as to the State of New* i
York and the New England States, such
efforts must prove fruitless. Against all such j
develism—against ail kidnappers—the color
ed people of these States wili “stand for their
life;” and, what is more, the white people of
these Ststes will not stand against them. A
regenerated public sentiment has, forever, re
moved these States beyond the limits of the
slaveholders, hunting ground. Defeat—-dis
grace—and, it may be, death—will be their
only reward for pursuing their prey into this
abohUonizcd portion of out country.
A special reason why you should not stop
in that part of the Nation which comes within
the bounds ot John McLean’s judicial district,
is, that he is s great man in one of the religi
ous sects, and an aspirant for the Presidency.
Fugitive slaves and their friend fare hard in
the hands of this Judge. He not only puts a
pro-slavery construction on the Federal Con
stitution, and holds, that law can make pro
perty of man—a marketable commodity of
the image of God, but, in various other ways,
be shows, that his sympathies are with the
oppressor. Shun Judge McLean, then, even
as you would the Reverend Muses Stuart.
The law of the one is as deadly an enemy to
you, as is the religion of the other.
There are thtee points in your conduct,
when you shall have become inhabitants of
the North, on which we cannot refrain from
admonishing you.
Ist. If you wi.l join a seciaiian church, let
it not be one which approves of the nfgro
pe w, and which refuses to treat alaveholdtng
as a crime against God and man. h
were beter, that you sacrifice your lives than
that by going into the negro pew, you invade
your self-respect—debsse your souls—play
the traitor to your race—and crucify afresh
Him who died for the one brotherhood of
man.
2 d. Join no political party, which refuses
to commit itself fully, openly, and heartfully,
in ita newspapers, meetings, and nommauous,
to the doclriue, that slavery is the grossest of
all absurdities, as well as the guiltiest cf all
abominations, and that there can no more be
a law for the enslavement of man, made in the
image of God, (ban for the enslavement of
God himself. Vote for no man for civil office;
who makes your complexion a bar to political,
•CclawMAiaaU 01 social equality. Better die
than insult »os«U every person
of 4> f rir* n intuit Maker h«
rtmrftuTrng to elevate to b v
who refuse* to cat wufa you. w hil
fide to the Huse of f
children ait ui ibesaW ft. J
dl s3 re Bwd not your ohddrco to the *choo
«»hiph the malignant aod murderous premdtci
toe costly, if al lb expense 0
U 1 reff-vaenfiriog, and heroic, aod
tyr-»pirit, which weak! impel the colored mrr
j of the North to turn their back* on pro-*la
very churches asd pre-slavery politic*, and
pro-slavery schools, would exert a far migit
tier influence against slavery, than could all
theii learning, however great, if purchaser
by concessions of their manhood, and sur
renders of their rights, and coupled, as it thet
would be, by chaiacte.istic meanness and ser
vility.
And now, brethren, we close this lettei
with assuring you, that we do not, cannot
forget you. You are ever in our minds, om
hearts, our prayers. Perhaps, your ar feat
ing, that the free colored prople of the Uoitec
Siste* will suffer themselves to be carried
away from vou by the American Colonisation
Society. Fear it not. In vain is it, thai
this greatest and most malignant enemy of the
African race ia now busy in devising new
plans, and in seeking the aid of Government,
to peipetuate your enslavement. It wants u*
away from your side, that you may be kept in
ignorance. But we will remain by your side
to enlighten you. It wants us away from
your side, that you may be contented. But
we will remain by your aide, to keep yon,
and make you more, discontented. It wants
us way flout your side to the end, that your
unsuccored end conscious helplessness may
make you the easier and suter prey of your
oppressors. But we will remain by your side
to sympathize with you, and cheer you, and
give you the help of our rapidly swelling
members. The land of our enslaved brethren
is our land, and death alone shal* pan us.
We cannot forget you, brethren, for we
know your sufferings: and we know your suf
ferings, because we know, from. experience,
what it is to be an American slave. So gall
ing was our bondage, that, to esc, pe from it,
we suffered the loss of all things, and braved
every peril, and endured every hardship.
Some of us left parents, some wives, some
children. Some of us were wounded with
guns and dogs, as we fled. Some of us, to
make good our escape, suffered ourselves to
he nailed up in boxes, and to pass for mer
chandize. Some of us secreted ouselves in
the suffocating holds of ships. Nothing was
so dreadful to us, as slavery; and hence, it is
almost literally true, that we dreaded noth
ing, which could befal ur, in our attempt to
get clear of it. Oui condition could be made
no woise, for we were already in the lowest
depths of earthly woe- Even should we be
overtaken, and resubjected to slavery, this
would be but to return to our old sufferings
and sorrows: and should death itself prove to
be the price of our endeavor after freedom,
what would that be but a welcome release to
men, who had, all their lifetime, been killed
every day, and “killed all the day long.”
We have referred to our perils and hard
ships in escaping from slavery. We are
happy to be able to say, that every year is
multiplying the facilities for leaving the
Southern prison house. The Liberty Party,
the Vigilance Committee of New York, in
dividuals, and companies of individuals in
various parts of the country, are doing all
they can, and it is much, to afford you a safe,
ind a cheap, passage from slavery to liberty.
They do this however, not only at great ex
pense of propeity, but at great peril of liberty
and life. Thousands of you have heard, ere
this, that, within the last fortnight, the pre
cious name of William L. Chaplin has been
added to the list of those, who, in helping
you gain your liberty, have lost their own.
Here is a man, whose wisdom, cultivation,
moral worth, bring him into the highest and
best class of men:—and, yet, he becomes a
willing maityr for the poor, despised, forgot
ten slave’s sake. Your remembrance of one
such fact is enough 10 shed light and hope
upon your darkest and most -disponding mo
ments.
Brethren, our last word to you is to bid
you be of good cheer, and not to despair of
your deliverance. Do not abandon your
selves, as have many thousands of American
slaves, to the crime of suicide. Live! live to
escape from slavery' live to serve God live
till He shall Himself call you into eternity!
Be prayerful—be brave—be hopeful. “Lift
up your heads, for your redemption diaweth
rvjph
lo the Liberty Party: The fugitive
slaves, whu are, this day assembled in Caz
smovia, N. Y. come to you,with a very ear
nest petition.
The National Convention, which you are
10 hold in the city af Oswego, the second day
of next October, is to nominate a candidate
for Piesident ol the United Slates. Your
petitioners are aware, that F. Julius Le
Moyne, William Gooodeli, and Gerrit Smith,
are each spoken of as such candidate.
As to Mr. Smith, we know, that he al
ways refuses nominations to office; and that
he, now, goes so far, as to refuse to admit,
that he would accept of the office, however
elevated or important, to which he might he
elected. As to Mr. Le Moyne and Mr. Good
ell, we cannot deny their competency to fill
the highest offices in the gift of the people—
they are wise and true-hearted men, an honor
to their age, their nation, their race. But,
notwithstanding all this richly deserved praise
of these men, we are bold to say, that there
is another man in this nation, who is not their
inferior in the qualifications for President of
ihe United States.—Nay, where, in the whole
length and breadth of this Nation, can a man
be found mote competent than William L.
Chaplin to administer itc Government He
is emphatically a scholar, a statesman, a
philanthropist, a gentleman, and a Christian.
Job, who was the supreme magistrate in the
community, in which he dwelt, numbers
among his own qualifications for office, “1
was a father To THE poor.”—Beautiful,
precious, indispensable qualification ia this!
and who has it more abundantly than William
L. Chaplin.
But, we confess it is not because of Mr.
Chaplin’s ability to fill arid admn the office
of President of the United Slates, that we
ask you to nominate him to the office. It is,
because he is a prisoner!—and a prisoner for
such a cause! It is true, that we would
not, for this reason, ask for his nomination,
wese it not also, that he is fit foi it. But,
being fit fot it, we find in the fact of his im
prisonment, good cause why he, auong all,
who have such fitness, should be singled out
for the nomination.
In our esteem, however it may be in the
esteem of others, who hsve not, like our
selves, had personal experience of the woee
of slavery, the greatest of mil the questions ol
human rights, which agitate this age, is Sla
very. Now, to the just and merciful solu
lion of this question, Mr. Chaplia has devotee
himself, with an ability, a zeal, and a self
denial, which none of bis fellow laborers an<
fellow sufferers hsve surpassed. And, whilst
in return for all this Heaven will reward, ant
dues now reward, him with its love, met
have deprived lum of his personal liberty. O
all the men in this land, who are fit for Presi
dent, he is the only oue, who, lor devotion’!
sake to the cause of the slave, is suffertnj
this severe deprivation. And is not his im
prison ment, taking all the circumstances i.it
account, a very clear and certain providentia
indication, that he is the naan for your caodi
date? And would not your nominal ton u
him, besides being a merited tribute lo hi
excellent worth, and a soothing and beautifu
expression of your sympathy with his suffer
mgs, and of your affliotion in hit afflictions
and, besides being, in your thus openly, an
without shame, idertilying yourselves wit
his self sacrificing but odious principles,
most honored evidence of your magnanimity
—would it not, also, be an unambiguous so
impressive acknowledgment of the transcer
dent importance of the anti-slavery cause?
him in nomination fur President of me Unit
States, did be not, in other respects, al«
represent and honor the principles of tl
Liberty p«ty. tour party is devoted to tl
cause of the landless, as well to the cam
i of the enslaved. So is be. Free trade, oj
f position to National wars, and National deb.
and secret societies, are among yo» t prmc
plea. So «»of hie, alas, fit
why need we go into these particular** M
Chaplin is himself a member of the Liber
Party:-ay, he is, at this moment, the Lit*
*y **wty candidate for Governor of the Sta
of New York. Happy party in being le
ored with such a candidate! Hi* new ho
ora—the honors of his prison—are not co
fined to his own brow. The Party which p
him in nomination, shares in them, and thu
i« it, already rewarded lor the sagacity ar
soul, which governed it, in selecting its cai
didate. A greater reward will follow i
nomination of him to a higher office—and
will be all ihe greater, because of his preae
circumstances.
Nominate, then, we beseech you, for Prei
ident of the United States, William L. Cha|
li.i. The news of hia nomination will be ifc
most welcome and cheering of all news t
the free colored people of this nation. An
this glad news will reach many a poor alav«
and thrill with joy his now desolate heart, i
will astonish all chr stmidom to learn, ih<
the Government of a Nation holds in pnsn
the man nomin tied to the chief magtamc
of that Nation—and hoids him there for n
other offence than helping hia fellow-mer
and these too his fellow-couairymen, out
slavery, and does this, too, notwithstanding
the basis principle of that Nation is, that al
men abc created eqcal. The slaveholder
will stand aghast at this nomination. The;
will regret, that they provoked it; —and the;
will strive, in vain, to lay the mighty influ
ences, which ptoceed from it. Another grea
benefit, which will attend this nominal ion, is
that it will test the religion tfgJhose ?who es
teem it to be their duty WfSw under th<
Constitution of the United States. Hitherto
the great mass of professing Christians in thi
land have voted for slaveholders—even foi
this meanest and cruellest class of pirates,ant
h ive yet been called Christians. But, wil
they be called Christians—nay, will they
much as make themselves believe, that the)
are Christians —if, when the question before
them is, whether on the one hand, to vote foi
the follower of Christ, who, for Christ’s sake
and tho sake ol His poor, lies in prison, or,
on the other, to vote for ihe heartless candi
date who will keep that follower of Christ in
prison, they shall decide to vote for that heart
less candidate? Again, we beseech you tc
nominate William L. Chaplin. That nomi
nation will try the temper of ibe people—the
spirit of the church. To the bos m of every
voter it will bring home the question:—
“Will you vote for the innocent and
BELOVED PRISONER, OR FOR HIM WHO WILL
HOLD HIM a PRISONER?” Nominate William
L. Chaplin, and you will, thereby, send to the
polls the great question: “For the Prison
er, OR against the prisoner?” And, re
member, too, that, in the dying of this great
question,ihe question of slavery, of humanity,
of religion, will be tried—and tried too, more
effectually, tl.an they have ever yet been tried
in this guilty land.
Our petition and our reasons for it are now
before you. In disposing of them, may you
have the Divine guidance!
resolutions.
Ist. Resolved, That Slavery is the curse of
Burses; the robbery of robberies; and the
crime of crimes.
9J. Resolved, That, inasmuch as it is the
duty of evety man to serve God with all his
powers, it follows, that no man has the right
to curtail his powers by going into slavery;
but that every man who is in that condition, is
bound to get out of it, if he can: and fur her
more, that, on the principle o: the brother
hood and identity 01 rnci, he is no more
bound to get out of it it he can, than others
are to help him out of it, if they can.
3d. Resolved, That our hearts are in the
cell of Willian L. Chaplin; and that, whilst
his enemies deride his condition, and his false
friends aie ashamed of his chains, he will
ever be in our eyes, and that, too, whether he
die in the dungeon or on the scatfold, a scho
lar, a sta teaman,a philanthropist, a gentleman,
and a Christian,
4th. Resolved, That in that day, when the
slaveholder shall find, in each slave he has re
tained in slavery, a mill-stone around the
neck of his sou), Charles T. Torrey and
William L. Chaplin will find in each slave,
whom they may have delivered, a welcome
remembrancer of their laith in God and Jove
to man.
sin. Resolved, That, odious in the sight of
the American people, as is the “slave steal
ing,” which is charged upon William L.
Chaplin; that is, neveitheless, a sham repub
licanism, and a sham Christianity, which does
not indorse it.
6th. Whereas, whatever may be said of
slavery in the States, it is admitted by all the
intelligent and candid, that the Federal Con
stitution, can authorize, can suffer, no slavery
in the District of Cob inbia; and that the Ha
very, which exists there, exists simply out of
comity 10 the slaveliolding portion of the
country:
Resolved, therefore, that William L. Chap
lin and they, who occupied the carriage with
him, the evening of the Bth instant, were a
company of innocent freemen; and that they,
who stopped it, were guiliy of the insolence
and violence of highwaymen, and should be,
and, if this were a land of law and justice,
uwuldbe, promptly punished as highwaymen.
7th. Resolved, That, there is not in the
Congress of the United States, one liberty
loving and law-loving raaif, who can consent
that its present session shall cloae, until
Drayton, Sayre, Harris, and Chaplin have
been released from {prison, and slavery ex
pelled from the District of Columbia,
Bth. Resolved. That slavery in the Dis
trict of Columbia is a fearful precedent which
caunot be too speedily overthrown:—for, if
Congress can make slaves of some persons
there, it can make slaves of all persons there;
and the like power can it exercise, whatever,
in any Slate, there are National “foils, mag
azines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other need
ful buildings,” and upon whatever persons
may visit them, or enter a Post Office, or a
Custom House, or a Federal Court House.
9th. Resolved, That, whethet there is, or
is not, Constitutional slavery in the States,
the Federal Government should see lo it, that
all the slaves, and the posterity of all the fe
male slaves who have ever been, though but
for a moment, and though with or without
the consent of their masters, within the lim
its of the District of Columbia, be immedi
ately restored to liberty:—for it is too plain
to require argument, that, whoever, whethet
slaves or freemen, be the fugitives from ser
vice and labor, referrflstD in the constitution,
they ate fugitives from one State into another
State.
10th. Resolved, That, much a*s the Fret
Soil Party has said of its purpose “to divorct
the Federal Government from the support o!
slavery,” it is now, and has, long beea abun
dantly demonstrated, that this purpose cannot
be accomplished, without either disbanding
that Government or wielding it for the over
throw of slavery, in every part of the Na
tion,
11th. Resolved, That he dishonors boil
Republicanism and Christianity, who ac
knowledges any law of slavery, or who ac
knowledges, that such an abomination, at
slavery, is capable of legalizaton.
12th. Resolved, That slaveholders ate tb<
cruellest and meanest of ail piraies; and that
instead of being fit to be civil rulers, no Gov
eminent is just, which does not make then
ibe subjects of its severest punishment.
13th. Resolved, That, in the arrest and im
prison men t of William L- Chaplin, for no ol
fence but ihat of loving his neighbor ss him
self, and of practically maintaining the eon
fesaedly self-evident and inalienable right o
man to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap
pincss,” we aee, not only, that the Fed-ra
iDiatrict, which was placed by the Conatitu
control of Con
power, but we sea v
ru:h,that the struggle in this
s avery and freedom involve. lhe
f,ee h,te ent»ea, as well as of ue color
d slave—that it is in short, a |jf e and deal!
which must icsult in liberty to a ij
4t in the liability of slavery to all.
goic,
down into a Free Soil party, or any ©th«
r ahatn abolition party, or of identifying them
selves whk any scheme whatever of “anti
slavery mide easv,” abolitionists are sum
mooed by me thickening of the anti-slavery
battle, and the- multiply ihng trials of their ao
li-slavery integrity—by the voice of Torrey
t from his grave and of Chaplin from his
prison, to put forth more and more emphatic
and self-denying evidences, of tbesinceiitv
and depth of their sense of the immeasurable
and horrid wickedness of slavery.
15th. Resolved, That, among the eviden
ces of our devotion to the cause of tbe slave
should be.
Ist. No connection with, and no Worship
ping with, a church, which has i oegio-pew,
or which it associated, directly or indirectly'
closely or remotely, with chuiches, North or
South, that have it.
2d. No voting fm any man for any civil office
who makes complexion a bar to eithei m il
or political equality; or w ho will admit, mat
there is the least obligation to obey, or honor
any form or pretence oflaw, nr any judicial
decision, which ta on the side of slavery.
3d. No consuming, unless in cases of abso
lute necessity, any of the produce of slave
labor— any of the cotton, rice, sugar, which
are wet with the tears and sweat, and red
with the blood, and heavy with tho groans, of
the poor, weary, and desolaie victims of the
slave-power.
16 h. Resolved, That, in the names of God
and Humanity, Religion and the Constitution
we demand the liberation, not only of Dray
ton and Sayre and Harris and Chaplin, but of
the slaves of the District of Columbia; and
that, in these names, do we, also, demand,
that the American people shall regard the re
fusal to liberate these victims of the slave
power, asjust cause for Revolution'.
17tb. Resolved, That, we call on every
man in the Free States, who shall go to the
polls, at the approaching Elections,to go with
this motto burning in his heart and bursting
from hia lips: “Chaplin's release, or civil
REVOLUTION.”
Dj 3 Thirty or forty slaves absconded from
Prince George county, Maryland, on the 18th
I inst. An ong them, two mulattoes belonging
'to Mr. Calvert. Pursuit thus fat haa been
unsuccessful.
Richmond, Aug. 17.
On yesterday, 38 slaves employed on the
Wetuinpka (A a.) Plank Road suddenly dis
appeared. They were instantly pursued, but
up io this time, there has nothing been heard
of them.
Slaves Captured One Shot. —Some
time last week, five slaves belonging to Pierce
Griffin, of Shelbyville, made their escape into
Indiana. Yesterday morning, three of them
were captured, and brought to this city. They
were armed with hemp hooka, and made re
sistance, and one of them was shot, the balk
lodging in his throat. His life is despaired
of. —Louisville Courier.
Abduction or Negroes. The Repub
lican, published at Like Ptovidence, La., of
the 27ih uliiino, says that there was consid
erable exc t-ment there on the Tuesday pre
vioua, by the running of! of 45 or 50 neg Toes
from ihe Peru plantation, Washington co.,
Miss., by those who assumed to be heirs to
the property. Sheriff Mnsely declined to
follow them, as by doing so, he was informed
his life would be placed in peril.
ID" The following are the ages of the
prominent men in England. Duke of Wel
lington, 81; Lordj Lyndhurst, 78;, Joseph
Hume, 73; Lord Brougham, 72. [This gen
tleman announced recently his intention to
visit America in February next.] Viscouni
Palmerston, 6ft; Lord John Russell, 58; Sir
George Grey, 51; Hon. T. B. Macaulay, 51;
Earl Gray. 48; Mr. Cobden, 47; Benjamin
Disraeli, 45; Lord John Manuers, 32; Duke
of Argye, 27.

Stampedes Almost every mail brings
intelligence of the escape of slaves from the
border slave States. Thirty-five are reported
to have left a single county in Maryland in
one day last week, and about a dozen from
other places in the same State in the cuur.-e
ot the week. Scarcely a day passes that such
attempts are not made, successful, ami the
number s supposed to be very large that have
resorted to this method of establishing their
right to themselves during the summer in
Vngmia, Maryland, and the District of Co
lumbia.—Anti-Slavery Standard.
Alarming Insurrection among the
Slaves —An insurrection in which four hun
dred slaves were to be engaged, was discov
ered in Lowndes County, Alabama, last
week. The rendezvous of the negroes was
fired upon by the whites, killing one slave
and wounding twenty others. The slaves
then fled. It is said the slaves were incited
to the insurrection by an Abolitionist, for
whose apprehension a reward of $6,000 has
been offered. Large parties were in pursuit
of him.—He is supposed to have fled toward
Cbrtlestoo.
A general massacre is supposed to have
been intended.
ID 3 The steamer America, Capt. N. Shan
non, which lett Liverpool on the 17th inst.,
for New York, arrived at Halifax Tuesday
evening.
Jenny Lind was giving conceits to crowd
ed audiences at Liverpool, and was to sail
for New York in the Atlantic on the 21sl
insl. Miss Cushman, the celebrated actress,
is a passenger in the America.
At a concert given at Liverpool on Friday.
A.ug. 17, by Jenny Lind the house was
crowded to suffocation, and tickets sold at s
high rate of premium. She is said to be more
beautiful than ever. The Atlantic being too
full of passengers to accommodate her full
suite, a part of them are passengers i? the
America.
Slave Property. —The papers from
Western Virginia, *Weatcto Maryland, and
the Eastern shore counties, teem with adver
tisements of rewards for runaway slaves.
The difficulty of recapturing runaways has
increased the amount offered very much
$3OO and $350 each being common. lam
informed by a slave-catcher and dealer that
the loss of slave property this spring and
summer, from Maryland and Virginia, is lar
ger than at any former period. He showed
me a list of advertisements he had arranged
in his note book, tor iefeiences, offering re
wards for eighty-one, amounting to about
$12,000. Tne total value of this numbei
would be futlv $50,000. A snug item foi
slaves owneis to post to “profit and less ac
count”—a great major ty of them being re
covered.”— Bat. Cor. o' TYibune.
Yale College —lnfluence of Slavery. Tht
Hartford Republican makes tbe following
statement:
We learn that the recent commencement a
New Haven, did not pass off without somt
flagellation of those who maintain opinion)
that are unpopular with our “brethren a
ihe South.”
“In th« oourae of their operations, ibr
Phi Beta Kappa Society proceeded to chomi
an o ator for 1851. They balloted, and wen
likely to make choice of Hon. Win, H. Sew
ard, whose name some thoughtless admirer
of that gentleman had introduced. Whcr
his eleotioo seemed certain, a Fillmore Whif
from New York, rose and objected to him, or
the ground that he maintained “extreme
opmions,” He was followed by Mr. Gouk
of Georgia, who sieruly opposed Air. Seward
and intimated, (or, rather, threatened,) ih
withdrawal uf tbe Southern patanage fron
tire College, if the College Soodties cuume
"feu"
LORD BROUGHAM COMING TO
AMERICA.
The roost eccentric member of the
most eccentric peerage extant is about
i coming among us to examine this de
mocracy a little more closely than he
has yet had an opportunity of doing.
Brougham is an old fellow—near sev
enty —but he is in astonishing preser
vation and seems determined to live
another score of years at least. Not
that
He husbands out life’s taper to ihe close,
And saves the flame from wasting by repose.
for he is one of the most restless and
vivacious men in the world. The ener
gy of his younger years still accom
panies him. In the domains of Litera
ture and Science, be has been a sort
of *‘Admirable Crichton.” He has
tried his pen at everything. His ene
mies used to say of the ex-Chancellor
that if he only knew a little law, he
would have a smattering “of all the
knowledge that was ever known.” But
Harry Broom knows the law too, and
can talk as well upon it, as upon the
Differential Calculus, or the Palarity o(
Light. In his youth he helped to found,
with Sydney Smith and Francis Jeffrey,
the Edinburgh Review. This was
when he and they “cultivated litera
ture on a little oatmeal.” Brougham
WBs the writer of that famous critique
upon young Lord Byron’s “Hours ol
Idleness”—though the public, and we
believe, the poet himself, attributed it
to Jeffrey, the Prases. Byron, how
ever, ranked Brougham among his foes
—as will be seen in the English Bards
and Scotch Reviewers, and may t»e
gathered from the line in Don Juan:—
A legal broom's a moral cbimuey-aweeper.
One of the most notable of Brough
am’s stepping stones to renown was
his eloquent and angry defence ol
Queen Caroline when brought to trial
before the House of Lords. Mr. Brough
am behaved on that momentous oc
casion with the greatest interepidity,
not sparing in his advocacy, the char
acter of the King himself. Under the
Reform Administration .of Lord Mel
bourne, Henry Brougham was made
Lord High Chancellor of England—
the keeper of the conscience of Wil
liam the Fourth. During the time he
held the seals of that high office, the
peculiarities of his lordship, instead of
being represented by the grave duties
and circumstances of his situation, were
exhibited as remarkably as ever. He
astonished the officials and lawyers of
the Court of Chancery, by the energy
and rapidity of most of his decisions.
People who were accustomed to the
doubts, delays and general prolixity of
Lord Eldon—the preceding Chancel
lor, —were astonished at the innovating
spirit of Brougham. He was at that
time in his element, and went through
his various duties with an intellectual
agility perfectly unparalleled. He was
President of the Society for the Diffu
sion of Useful knowledge, and was
ceaseless in his labors to support it.
AAer having passed hours in literary
correspondence concerning the works
it was publishing, or making alteration!
or suggestions in them, he would gc
down to the House of Lords, where he
would electrify that grave senate with
some eloquent exposition of politics
f principle, or some withering tirade
aunched against some rash opposition
ist who had ventured a fling at the
wool sack. Leaving the House, some
times at three or four o'clock in the
morning, he would be found in his seal
nt Court by nine o’clock, looking a*
fresh as a daisy, and go to work at his
adjudications and decisions as if he had
just then only begun to exercise his
faculties in that particular line of busi
ness. In everything he treated his
lofty station as if it was entirely sub
servient to the wilful personality ol
Henry Brougham. For this he was
caricatured at a great rate, and filled
the prints and paragraphs of the nation
with pleasantry. He is still the object
of incessant sarcasm and satire. He is
part of Punch’s stock in trade. That
venerable joker could better spare his
indispensable Judy. His writers make
it their pastime to “gird at” the some
time Lord of the Woolsack on every
occasion. Like Falstaff, his is “not
only wity himself, but the cause of wit
in others.”
A thousand scapes of wit
Make him the father of their idle dream
And rack him in their fancies.
His nose is known to all the world
—it is as famous as the nose of Slaw
kenbergins, recorded in the veritable
history of Tristram Shandy. A million
of conceits have hung by that nose as
from a peg. Reports have been spread
in England, that weary of the British
aristocracy, like Lord Edward Fitz
gerald, he intends to renounced his
title, and claim a naturalization here
as a citizen of the republic. It will be
remembered that in the hey-day of the
French Revolution of 1848, he wrote
to the Provincial Government for let
ters of French citizenship. Lamartine
was then at the head of affairs, and
refused the request —apprehensive, it
is said, that if Brougham came into the
revolution at all, ho would work the
poet out of his prominent position and
occupy it himsfelf. But we are not
quite sure that Brougham really intends
to throw off the bindings of the peerage
and become as one of us. There is a
matter of 25,000 dollars a year (life
pension of an ex-Chancellor) which
he should sacrifice, as a preliminary;
and this, we think, is a grave obstacle,
in the way of such a consummation.
In apite of his eccentricities,
Brougham is a man of splendid and
general genius, and will be recognized
and remembered as Aich by posterity,
when these are forgotten. We have
no doubt he will will receive from the
American people a favorable reception,
such at they are never backward in
giving to men of genuine intellectual
power.— Yankee Blade.
Quick Wit. —A gentleman travel
ling on horseback “down east,” came
upon an Irishman who was was fencing
in a most barren and desolate piece ol
land
What are you fencing in that lot
for, Pat?” said he, “A nerd of cows
would starve to death on that lend.”
“An, sure yer honor, sir; wasn’t I
fencing it to kape the peer bastes out
of it?”
All ENEMY Ilf CHASE—A PROVI
DENTIAL SUCCOUR*
Many an uneasy look was thrown
orer our shoulders as we struggled
down that slope. Our strength was
urged to its utmost; and this was not
much, for we bad all lost blood in the
encounter with the sleuth-hounds, and
lelt week and faint. We were baffled,
too, by a storm; a fierce, tropical
storm. The rain, thick and heavy,
plashed in our faces, and made the
ground slippery under our feet. The
lightning flashed in our eyes, and the
electric sulpher shortened our breath
ing. Still we coughed, and panted,
and staggered onward, nerved by the
knowledge that death was behind us.
I shall never forget that fearful race.
I thought it would never end. I can
only liken it to one of those dreams in
which we are always making endea
vours to escape from some horrible
monster, and are as often hindered b)
a strange and mysterious helplesness.
I remember it now as then. I have of
ten repeated that flight in my sleep,
and always awoke with a feeling ol
shuddering horror. We had got with
in five hundred yards of the timber.
Fivo hundred yards is not much to a
fresh runner; but to us toiling along
at a trot, that much more resembled a
walk, it seemed an infinity. A small
prairie, w th a stream beyond, separa
ted us from the edge of the woods, a
smooth sward, without a single tree.
We had entered upon it; Raoul, who
was light on foot, being in the advance,
while Lincoln, from choice, hung in
the rear. An exclamation from the
hunter caused us to look back. We
were too much fatigued and worn-out
to be frightened at the sight. Along
the crest of the hill a hundred hors
men were dashing after us in full gal
lop, and the next moment their venge
ful screams were ringing in our ears.
“Now, do yer best, boys,” cried Lin
coln, “an I’ll stop the cavortin of that
ere foremost feller afore he gits much
furrer.” We trailed our bodies ou,
but we could hear the guerilleros fast
closing upon us. The bullets from
their escopettes whistled in our ears,
and cut the grass among our feet. I
saw Raoul, who had reached the tim
ber, turn suddenly round, and v»alk
back. He had resolved to share our
fate. “Save yourself, Raoul I call
ed with my weak voice; but he could
not have heard me above the din. I
saw him still walking towards us. I
heard the screams behind. I heard
the shots, and the whizzing of bullets,
and the fierce shouts. I heard the
clatter of hoofs, and the rasping of
sabres, as they leaped out of tho iron
sheaths; and among these I heard the
crack of Lincoln’s rifle and the wild yell
of the hunter. Then a peal of thunder
drowned all other sounds; the heavens
one moment seemed on fire, then black,
black I felt the stifling smell of sul
phur, a hot flash, a quick stroke from
j some invisible hand, and 1 sank sense
i less to the earth Something cool in
jmy throat and over my face brought
back the conciousness that I lived. It
was water. I opened my eyes, but it
was some moments before I could see
that Raoul was bending over nrc and
laving my temples with water from his
boot I muttered some half-coherent
inquiries. “It was a coup d'eclair, cap
tain,” said Raoul.— Good heavens
We bad been struct by lightening
Raoul, being in the advance, had es
caped. The Frenchman left me and
went to Clayley, who, with Chunc and
’.he hunter, lay close by, all three,
as I thought dead. They were pale as
corpses, with here and there a spot of
purple or a livid line traced over their
skins, white their lips presented the
whitish, bloodless hue of death “Are
‘hey dead I asked, feebly. “I
think not; we shall see;” and tho
Frenchman poured some water in Clay
ley,s mouth. The latter tighed heavily,
and appeared to revive. Raoul passed
on to the hunter, who, as soon as he
felt the water, started to his feet, and,
clutching his comrade fiercely by the
throat exclaimed, “Yer cussed cata
mount yer wud hang me, wud ye
Seeing who it w as, he stopped sudden
ly, and looked round with an air of ex
treain bewilderment. His eye now fell
upon the rifle; and all at once, veetn
ing to recollect himself, he staggered
towards it and picked it up.—Then, as
if by instinct, hi? passed his hand into
his pouch and coolly commenced load
ing*! While Raoul was busy with
Clay ley and the Irishman, I had risen
tp my feet and looked hack over the
prairie, The ran was falling in tor
rents, and the lightning still flashed at
intervals. At the distance of fifty
paces a black mass was lying upon the
ground, motionless, a mass of men and
horses, mingled together as they had
fallen in their track* Here and there
a single horse and his rider lay pos
trate together. Beyond these, twenty
or thirty horsemen were gallopping in
circles over the plain, and vainly en
deavouring to head their frightened
steeds towards the point we were.
These, like Raoul, had escaped the
stroke. “Come,” cried the French
man, who had now resuscitated Clay
ley and Chane, “we have not a mo
ment to lose. The mustangs will get
over their fright, and these fellows will
be down upon us.” His advice was
instantly followed, and before the guer
illeros could manage their scared
horses, we had entered the thicket and
were crawling along under the wet
leaves.— The Rifle Ranger s.
JCJ* A China man in San Francis
co, by the name of As-Sing, keeper
of a restaurant left open a cess-pool on
his premises, into which one of the
citizens chanced to fall, and the result
was an action for damages. To the
note addressed by the sufferer’s law
yer to John Chinaman, the following
reply (in good Chinese) was returned
immediately “By the laws of the
Celestial Empire, which have been in
force since the reign of Confucius to
the reign of the present illustrious
Taukwang, it is provided that where a
man trespasses upon another’s property
and thereby faileth into a sink, he shall
get nothing but dirty clothes, unless he
shall happen to be an outside barbari
an, in which ease he shall also get
laughed at. As-Sing believes those
laejs still in foree in all parts of the
world, and also in California. But, if
Mr. E. thinks otherwise, he can trot
that officer along with the writ.”
THE DUKE OF WELLIHGTONr
The London papers contain the fol
lowing ludicrous account of a game of
cross-purposes played by the great
Duke of Wellington, the great Bishop
of London, and the not quite so. groat,
but somewhat great-.sh Mrs. London,,
the authoress:—
“A remarkable story has besn in
circulation in private circles for some
days past, which, we think, is too good
to be l:.st to the “general public,” par
ticularly as it numbers among its dra
matis persotye no less personages than
Field Marshal his Grace the Comman
der-in-Chicf, the Metropolitan Bishop,
and an accomplished authoress. It is
only necessary to mention the name of
Mrs. London, to recall to tho reader’s
memory, the clever writings of that
lady on horticulture. She was lately
in the neighborhood of Strathfieldsaye,
and being.anxtous to visit spots remark
able for fine specimens of the vegeta
ble world, she wrote to the duke, con
veying her desire to see some “beech
es,” for which the gardens of bis Grace
were celebrated. Tho letter was duly
delivered, and the duke, raising his
glasses and glancing at the contents,
his eye caught hastily the signature of
the note, “C. J. London,” and he at
once came to tho conclusion that it
i came from Charles James, Bishop of
of London, more particularly as the
i hand writing bore a close resemblance
to that of the right rev. prelate. But
whilst there was nothing remarkable in
the fact of a note from the bishop, the
object of it did raise his Grace’s most
especial wonder, for that same rapid
glance which had converted an amiable
i lady into a bishop, metamorphosed the
majectic beeches of Strathfieldsaye in
to the nether garments of their illustri
ous owner; in fact the note ran thus:
that “C. J. London” (the ordinary
laconic mode in which Charles James,
Bishop of London, sums up his hon
t ors and dignities) was desirous of
i viewing the Duke of Wellington’s
“breeches.” How the Duke looked
t as he eyed the note, is notour province
i to picture, but with his usual despatch,
and thinking that the request applied
I to the Waterloo inexpressibles, and
that they might be wanted for artistic
i purposes, he directed his valet to look
r out the article, and forward it in a
polite form to his lordship.
II The packet arrived at the bishop’s,
I and the amazement with which the pre
late received with “F. M. the Duke of
1 Wellington’s compliments,” his “Wa
terloo breeches,” may possibly be con
st ceived. But the ludicrous was soon
f changed into the painful, as the idea
i flashed through the mind of the bishop
s! that all was not “quite right” with the
I great veteran, and to solve the painful
r. doubt his lordship started off to the
i premier to make Lord John a party to
the extraordinary present he had re
ceived. Now it happened that after
i the parcel had been despatched, the
Duke was struck by a similar thought
i as to the mental state of the right rev
t erend prelate, and he, too, thought it
t his duty to report to the premier the
t probable state of one of the heads of
the church militant. His Grace arrived
f most apropos. The bishop was with
tlie premier, Lord John was pondering
t’over the mystery of the breeches,
when up rode the noble owner of them.
How he ar.d the bishop looked at each
other, is again one of those matters in
which the imagination of the pencil
1 must come to the duty of the pen. But
I the climax of the scene was, that the
letter, the source from whence all the
a mischief had arose, was produced,
f conned over, and at length rightly in
r terpreted, C. J. London was substitut
i ed for the Bishop of London, the beech
es of Strathfieldsaye for the Duk’s
breeches, and to suin up, Mrs. London
i received by return of post a polite com
pliance with her request. We have
given the above facts as they have
I been related in different quarters as au
thentic.
I BARNES, EDITOR OF THE LON
DON TIMES.
Equally good scholar, but of a less
zealous temperament was Barnes, who
I stood next me on the deputy-Grecian
I form, and who was afterwards identi-
I lied with the sudden and striking in
,l crease oi the Times newspaper in fame
and influence. He was very handsome
when young, with a profile of Grecian
regularity; and was famous among us
for a certain dispassionate humor, for
his admiration of the works of Field
ing, and of his delight, nevertheless,
in pushing a narrative to its utmost,
and drawing upon his stores of
fancy for intensifying it, an amusement
I for which he possessed an understood
I privilege. It was painful in after-life
j to see his good looks swallowed up in
I corpulency, and his once handsome
mouth thrusting its under lip.out, and
panting with asthma. I believe he was
eriginally so well constituted, in point
I of health and bodily feeling, that he
fancied he could go on all his life with
out taking any of the usual methods to
preserve his comfort. The editorship
ot the Times, which turned his night
into day, and would have been a trying
burden to auy man, completed the bad
I consequences of bis negligence, and
he died painfully before he was old.
Barnes wrote elegant Latin verse, a
I classical English style, and might as-
I suredly have made himself a name in
wit and literature, had he cared much
for anything beyond his glass of wine
and his Fielding.
What pleasant days have I not pas
sed with him, and other schoolfellows,
bathing in the New River, and boating
on the Thames. He and I began to
learn Italian together; and any body
not within the pale of the enthusiactic
might have thought us mad, as we
went shouting the beginning of Metas-
I tasio’s ode to Venus, as loud as we
could bawl, over the Hornsey-fields.—
Light HurU. j
Icy 6 -They hare a newspaper-folding
machine attached to the press of the
Boston Transcript, which will fold 60
papors per minutd We wish some
Yankee would iov Ma machine to di
rect papers, and make subscribers
pay up.”

A friend of ours, say* he is growing
weaker eod weaMur every day. He
has got so now thfct h« cant’ raise five
dollars.