MEETING IN
CANADA.
On Wednesday evening, a great and
most enthusiastic anti-slavery demon
stration was made in the City Hail.
—His worship the Mayor occupied the
chair. Rev. Dr. Willis opened the
meeting with an appropriate prayer.
The chairman then stated briefly the
object of the meeting, and called upon
Rev. Mr. McClure to move the firs
resolution.
Mr. McClure said, the resolution en
trusted to him was to the effect
“That slavery, that is, the wanton
and forcible bringing into bondage,
and retaining indefinitely in that state,
of rational beings, is an outrage on
the laws ot humanity, and of the Bible;
and that the continued existence of the
practice on this continent is just cause
of grief, and demands our best exer
tions by all lawful and practical means,
for its extinction.”
Slavery was denied in this resolu
tion as the wanton and forcible bring
ing of rational beings into bondage,
and retaining them indefinitely in that
state. Now, he had not to draw a
picture ot what slavery is, in order to
prove to the audience, what was meant
by the term. It was defined in the
words of the resolution; and it appeared
to him that his present duty was simply
to sustain the facts therein stated by a
reference to what they all knew. They
knew that there were in existence at
present on this continent three millions
of rational creatures—beings like
themselves —men, women and children,
designated by the law as chattels, and
so entirely in their owners’ power, as
to be bound or loosed, bought or sold,
worked or fed, housed, lashed, driven,
imprisoned, insulted, and dishonored,
maimed, hunted down or shot down,
just as their owners please. This is
what is called in the resolution, wanton
and forcible bringing into bondage. He
needed not to stop to prove these state
ments; the papers of the city and the
cummunications they received from al
most every city in the neighboring
States, fully sustained the facts ho had
so briefly referred to. No relationship
or affection was respected in this state
of slavery. Thero was no respect paid
to the relationship of father or children,
of husband and wife, or of menbers ol
churches professing Christianity, for
the husband was liable to be sold away
from bis wife, and the wife to be torn
away from her family and sold into
bondage. It is the same with regard
to children, and there is no deference
paid to their affections or ties of rela
tionship. This, therefore, was a good
definition in his resolution in reference
to that. The law of the Slave Slates
is that the children follow the law of
their mother—that is, the mother be
ing a slave, the children, no matter
who the father may be, are slaves in
consequence of the mother being a
slave. The result is that the fathers
of the children are not unfrequently
their masters, and thus their own
children are their slaves, and they
treat them with no greater lenity than
they do those bought by them either
from bondage or from other men. They
are refused education only so far as
their instruction may benefit their mas
ters. They are taught various trades
and branches of labor so far as that
labor or these trades will promote the
interest* of their mastor; but they are
not educated as men and women ought
to be educated. The owner of such
property know well thbt instruction
wilt make them all the more uneasy in
their bonds, and particularly the in
structions ot our holy religion. It is a
well known fact that a freeman though
betake away the life of a slave may
have little difficulty in securing his re
treat and obtaining impunity for his
crime; yet if that freeman persist in
teaching a slave knowledge—particu
larly the knowledge of the Bible of
God, there is no more mercy for that
man, he is seized, fined, and imprison
ed, and the roost relentless feelings are
shown to such a man. It is too bad,
and what no man has a right to do with
his fellow-man* unlees he is convicted
of crime or of breaking the just laws of
hie country. It if too bad to chain and
bind and flog and sell his bones and
muscles; but it was far worse to keop
the key of knowledge out of bis hand*
and to shut out from him the knowledge
pC that eternal life in the Word of God
THE NORTH STAR.
FREDERICK DOC6LASS, Mlt*r ul Propriftor.
VOL. IV. NO. 13.
which is fso capable of ministering
comfort to the wretched. Need he stay
to prove the utter repugnance of all
this to our common human nature. It
would be waste of time. The rudest
and most thoughtless mind would at
once see the injustice and the wanton
cruelty of such a state of things. A
seaman in a British vessel who was in
the Southern States, on taking a ram
ble after his work with some of
and women put up for sale, as he had
been in the habit af seeing old furni
ture in his own country put up, he and
his companions stood thunder struck
for a time, at last he said—“ Well
Jim if the devil don’t get these fellows,
I don’t know what use there is for a
devil.” Not only is such conduct re-
pugnant to our humanity, but to the
whole teaching of the spirit of the
Bible, and it is in this view an impossi
bility for a man to carry out in his own
heart, or practice, the teachings of that
holy Bible and bean abettor of slavery, i
“Thou shall love thy neighbor as thy- i
self’ tells us the grand object for which
we circulate the Scriptures and for i
which we bear Christ’s banner to the i
remotest corners of the earth. Now i
slavery is entirely opposed to this prin- i
ciple, and it is utterly impossible under I
such a system to preach from that text i
—“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as
thyself.” The very phraseology of I
the Bible is against it. The Savior i
says, “A new commandment I give i
unto you —be kindly affectioned one
toward another, in honor preferring i
one another.” But it is opposed also i
to the very letter of the Bible. It is I
directly opposed to that summary of the i
moral law which the Lord Jesus Christ i
lays down for the guidance of the church i
in all ages of the world. In Matt, i
7 and 12, he says, “All things whatso- i
ever ye would that men should do to
you, do ye even so to them,” this is a
brief law and easily recollected, it is
clear and easily understood; and it is
a law so substantially general that it
is impossible to misapply it. It is re
trospective as well as prospective —for,
says the Redeemer,“On these hang all
the law andlhe prophets.” The exist
ence of such a law as this described in
the resolution is a grief to the Christian
Church, and so long as his memory
reached back, the subject of slavery
has been a cause of grief to good men
and good women wherever he had
travelled. It is an old principle—old
as the book of God—old as the laws
of the Almighty. It is not only a cause
of grief to those who live under insti
tutions so favorable to freedom as are
those of Britain, and in a land where
no man can be a slave to his fellow
men—where every man the moment he
plants his foot upon British soil can no
longer be a bondman; but if he obeys
the law of the land and follows a
course of honest industry he has all
the advantages of citizenship, and
since he recollected, that had been
the boast and glory of his native land.
In some parts of the British posses
sions, it is no doubt but as
that the stain was washed away; yet
he rejoiced that it was washed away.
It took years for the full enunciation of
these principles, and wasted the lives
of many good men to accomplish this;
but their lives were not thrown away.
And the day was coming when every
bond of every bondman shall be taken
away, and when the liberty indicated
in the Word of God shall become as
universal as the family of man. The
Rev. gentleman here read an extract
from an \merican paper showing
the evils of slavery, and sat down
amidst great applause.
Professor Esson, in seconding the
resolution, regretted that having had
no previous intimation of the motion
which he was now called to support,
he was not prepared to do that justice
to the cause, which he would ardently
desire. What was it that constituted
the guilt of murder?
“Tbe poor beetle that we tread on,
In coiporal Huffering feels a pang as great
As when a giant dies.”
That life which is like a bubble
blown upon tbe bosom of the water
this moment, to burst the next —why
should it be thought a deed so dark, a
crime so inexpiable to take it away
Hear the language of inspiration—
Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by
man shall his blood be shed”—for in
the image of God he made man. This
it is which constitutes the infinite dis
tance between him that killeth an ox
and him that slayeth a man. If it be
a crime to lake away this poor dying
lile of ours, the breath of man, which
is in his nostrils, what shall we say of
slavery, which is soul-murder? What
shall we say of the man who tramples
in the dust the image of the God of
heaven, and who takes away the in
alienable rights of the being God cre
ated for his own glory, to show forth
his praise, and who, therefore, is re
sponsible alone to the God whose
image he bears for his actions and his
conduct. Here, then, lies the infinite
guilt of taking the being made in the
image of God, and treating him as a
brute creature—rating him amongst
goods and chattels, as a part of human
property —taking from him every possi
bility of fulfilling his responsibility to
the God who created him to be his
□Minister —who created that soul to be
made happy now in tbe enjoyments of
the communion of God, and happy for
ever in the full enjoyment of God.
F|ere is the double crime of inhumani
ty and impiety. Hare is the highest
cfime that can be perpetrated—treason
shatnet both God and man—a crime
ijucb enlist* heaven and earth against
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS THE FATHER OF US AP4-AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN.
the perpetrators of it. It may be said,
wbat right have you to meddle with the
affairs of other men—of other com
munities. If to intermeddle with the
affair of our neighbors in the same
community be impertinent,' to interfere
with the affairs of another independent
country is inconsistent with the rights
and the laws of nations. But there
are things which cannot be made ex-
BiHSi.Vfi.Jjrpnefitv v*m.. sllowivl
jniversal, indefeasible rights of man
all over the the globe, are the common
conern, and must be the common cause
af all men—of all nations. The pre
rogative and rights of humanity admit
not of circumscription by time or place.
The divine character of free agency is
jiven to every brother of the race, and
we have no more right to despoil him of
t than we have to absolve him from
he responsibility of every tree and
noral agent to the most high God. No
nan, no nation has a right to say that
his universal right of humanity is not
heir own cause. This all men are not
)*ly permitted, but are bound to con
iider as their own cause —as what most
ntimately and essentially affects every
individual and every nation. What!
ihall a man see a brother or sister of
be human race trampled upon, and
nust he look on with cold unconcern?
Vfust he say, as was said to Judas by
be murderers of the Savior—“ What
s that to us?” Must he say—This is
iq concern of mine, “am I my broth
m’s keeper?” No—This is the com
non interest, the common duty, the
imperative duty of all who bear the
luman name —of all who love the cause
humanity—of all who love that God
0( whom the most unspeakable outrage
Sjdone [in reducing the being made
inter his own image, to the condition of
he brute, and depriving the soul of all
t* high prerogatives as the offspring of
Sim whose inspiration gave it. Could
t pagan auditory, a heathen assembly
,n a Roman theratre, upon the utter
ance of the lines of one of their poets,
"l am a man, and nothing that affects
humanity can be indifferent to me”-r
could even the Romans, accustomed as
they were to the ferocious sports of
their amphitheatres, rise at once and
express their sympathy with the lan
guage of their dramatist, —and shall
Christian men not feel as a heathen or
pagan community, and that they have
a right to speak and to be heard in a
cause which annihilates all conven
tional distinction? They had a right
to use all the means which God and
nature have put into their power to re
move an evil which is a plague spot
upon the face of God’s earth. Let
him not be misunderstood, as if with
these views he would use the language
of reproach in treating of the existence
of slavery in the neighboring States,
for he felt that the guilt lies not wholly
upon those whose condition they la
mented, as having that inheritance
transmitted to them from their fathers.
They ought to feel that their own coun
try has been greatly guilty, and that
this is the common guilt of the civilized
and Christian world; and he would say
further that the manner in which they
should now make atonement, is for all
Christian men, for allcizilized and en
lightened men, to join their hearts
and hands in a peaceful crusade, and
to be ready to give freely of their
money in order to indemnity the slave
holders, and in order in one united
confederacy, to form a glorious and
holy enterprise, not merely to emanci
pate the slaves, for that would be the
least part of the work, but to educate,
enlighten, civilize, and christianize
them —and not only these our brethren
of Africa, but all those nations that
may be regarded as in a state of bar
barism or semi-barbarism. (Applause.)
No country has a greater or more im
perative duty laid upon her than
Britain. Britain has assigned to her
the high position.of advancing civiliza
tion, and advancing the interests of all
the family of man. Their great effort
should be to combine, as Christian
men, and as communities, to form an
enlarged and divine mission for the
purpose of saving from degradation
their brethren, who are, compared
with themselves, like mere children;
and they are called upon, like elder
brothers, to take them under protec
tion, and to impart to them that knowl
edge which will elevate them to the
standard of human beings. Here was
a great work, surely, very different
from that undertaken by the crusaders
in the dark ages which only deluged
the earth with blood. His motion did
not at all say that thej were to revile
their brethren of the United States, to
whom the curse of slavery bad been
transmitted as an inheritance, nor did
it call upon them to condemn the evil
and ait still as if there was no call upon
them to do anything. It is the duty of
Britain, as well aa the United States,
to see that thia common guilt ia ex
piated; and a call is made upon all
Christiana to combine in the spirit of
love and brotherly kindneaa, to en
deavor to redeem their brethren in the
United States, as well the slaveholders
as the slaves themselves, who are un
happily oppressed by this incubus.
They are called upon to see whether
the combined wisdom and intelligence
of Christiana, and of civilized men,
enlisted in the cause of religion and
humanity, cannot teach the world that
it ia possible for once to unite in a truly
Christian enterprise worthy of the di
vine and beneficent religion they pro
fess. (Great applause.) The Chair
man having put the resolution, U wns
carried
Dr, WiUtfMtd, the reeolutioa so
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1851.,
trusted to him was in the following
words:
•‘That, entertaining the feelings of
brethren and friends to the inhabitants
of the neighboring States, (in the most
part united to us by a common origin
and common If nguage,) and disclaim
ing all desire to intermeddle officiously,
with their internal affairs, we fee* we
but take the privilege of our common
-riwr
however severe, either political or do*'
mestic, civil, (military, or naval; hut m i
the forced servitude in perpetuity 61 i
the helplesa poor, unaccused, untried i
and uncondemned; imposed on them
by a power which they cannot resist,
supported by laws in which they have
no voice. The laws are grievously
aggravated by the Fugitive Slave Bill,
are at open variance with the best in
terests of man, as endowed by our
Great Creator with the privilege “of
life, liberty and the pursuit of happi
ness”—privileges and rights always
inalienable, except when forfeited by
crime charged and proved,”
He could not do better than begin
where his worthy friend left off, and re
iterate the sentiments he so well urged
towards the conclusion of his address,
that to consult together and to act to
gether in this cause, even on a soil that
is itself happily* 1 free from the evil ol
which they complained, is no undue
interference with any right of neighbor
hood. It was well said, that no man
should put away from him the cause of
his fellow-creatures; and no one should
feel himself free from the duty of en
deavoring to vindicate the aggrieved.
That is the duty of humanity—it is en
forced upon them by the doctrines of
Christianity. They had an answer to
give in these words of the sacred scrip
tures Remember them who are in
bonds, as being bound with them, and
them that suffer adversity as being
ourselves also in the body.” And he
did remember, also, among the other
sayings of Solomon, due therefore to
his inspired wisdom —he remembered
among his many aphorisms —with re
gard to those who are delivered to
death—“lf thou gayest, Behold, we
knew it not; doth not he that pondereth
the heart consider it? and shall not he
render to every man according to his
works.” So that they were not only
enjoined to vindicate the rights of the
oppressed, but admonished also of the
dangei v* being negligent it} doing;
their part in this great work, /he
time has been when the word strange*
and the word enemy were almost iden
tical. It ia happily not so now. The
nations, in spite of themselves, are ac
knowledging that they must work to
gether—that their interests are mutual;
hence commercial interchanges, and
commercial treaties, and political in
ternational communings. (Cheers.)
But in addition to that sort ol commun
ion between nations, and in addition
to that which refers to self-preservation,
there is a third sort of communion that
they availed themselves of at this time,
and ought to recognise in the spirit of
friendship between country and coun
try —the commenion of moral sympa
thy. In seeking to do a neighbor’s
part, they would hasten to save others
as the) would save themselves from
the guilt of great crime, and the danger
of that crime being sanctioned ami
prompted by law, whether on this side
or on the other side of the lines. It is
but the business of philanthropy—it is
but a manifestation of love to your fel
low-creatures, thus to hasten forward,
for the sake of the Americans, as well
as for yourselves, the cause of civilisa
tion and religion, and rational liberty
and humanity.—(Applause.) Slavery
involves a sort of relationship between
the master or ownur, as he is termed,
or the servant and slave as he is celled
—which our British jurists and our
French jurists hold to be, and he con
curred with them, —a relationship
which never can be legalized. If they
look to laws having their basis on rea
son and justice and humanity, it is im
possible to institute relationship be
tween an owner and a slave; and our
F.rekines, and Stairs, and Montesquieus
say, it cannot be legalized. He loved
the principles of political equity laid
down by Montesquieu. It has some
times been said that slavery may be
founded upon the right of conquest, and
Montesquieu allows —and Puffendorf
does not deny this. They do not deny
that there may be enforced service. It
is generally admitted, that in certain
caaes, even life may be taken away;
and just as life may be taken away, he
did not dispute that liberty may be ta
ken away; this may be necessary un
der certain circumstances, with a view
to the safety and liberty of the commu
nity at large. They all know that they
•but up the insane out of mercy to
themselves, and out of regard to the
safety of the community too. Even so,
did they lay under restraint the depre
dator, that property may be safe. All
that may be true, and he would not say
that in certain cases slavery may not
be imposed by right of conquest to a
certain extent. But this he would say,
that every law, natural aad sacred-*'
the opinion of every enlightened Jurist
in every part of the world want to this
—that neithor by the right of cooquest,
nor any power of human beings, may
men deaf capriciously with their teftow
men, without cause shown, and crime
charged—(applause)—as the resolu
tion expresses, may not, indefinitely
dispose of human life and human lib
erty. Slavery has been contended for
by those who have traced its history,
and imputed it to the right of conquer*.
that ia»W»tgfc m
TEMS—S2 Pot Ann, lirariably Ii My met.
®aj *#ve gotten into their power those,
fer ligand death, who were found in
tW atitude of seeking their destruc
tifii. jut it is but a mitigated use of
if they impose bondage
iipte«l*of death. But, however, ii
#7 Id said that in barbarous times
tv victorious party exercised their
rfthtof^husdealing with the captives,
he to be told that in this enlight
e|d jmnH even the conqueror has a
party r CerrWmV
dictates, and Christianity dictates that
no wanton liberty, be taken either with
the life or freedom of human beings,
over and above what can be asserted
as necessary for the safety of those to
whom Providence may have given the
victory ahd the ascendency. Mon
tesquieu lays it down as a principle,
that if it can be proved that a man has
a right tq sell himself into bondage
still he hap no right to sell his children,
and no into has a right to sell himself
indefinitely. For what is slavery?
Many people lose sight of this ques
tion. They forget to trace the matter
to its lource, and they faring forward
some ascidental circumstance to com
pare it, with. They compare it with
the relationship between master and
servanf under circumstances very un
favorable, where it is easy to make a
good argument; and they say that the
grievatces under liberty are as great as
those isnder the avowed designation of
slavery Now this resolution expresses
that slavery in the United States is
not to be compared with any kind of
oppresUon, however grievous, which
may be found in ordinary society in any
departnent of life whatever. It is easy
to say tjiat there is a good deal of sla
very in lorae of the cities of Britain,
such as long hours and hard labor; but
no man is a slave, and no woman is a
slave in any sense to be compared to
thf slavery be was talking of. British
justice renders the law open to every
mtn —to the servant as well as the mas
tef. What he complained of was hope
less servitude. In these cases there
was much hard labor, and even oppres
sion; there is this peculiarity that, they
are in a state essentially different from
slavery, because in the eye of the law
they are equal with the highest in the
land, and are not prevented from giv
ing evidence upon any given case.
The slave, on the other hand, is ad
judged to indefinite, unrequited labor,
without contract, and governed by the
lafc of force alone. Thereforejt is
that our jurists have ea.d, that thw Jaw
cannot be enforced; that a relationship
existing by mere force alone, can im
ply no obligations on the part of the
slave. Let them tell the world as far
as their feeble voices can sound, let the
press of our city carry the message,
thtt we regret for the sake of the States
ol America-—that we are ashamed for
the sake of our brethren of the same
language, and ol kindred origin—that
they should have enacted a law which
involves such an outrageous violation
ofthe primary and fundamental rights
of human beings, as the fugitive slave
law (Applause.) The relationship of
min and servant as owner and slave,
sxists by no contract, and there is no
[foligation binding on a man to remain
moment longer in bondage than he
can possibly help: for there can be
no violation or breach of contract
where no contract exists. (Great ap
plause.) The man who seeks his way
to the soil of freedom, ought to be con
gratulated and hailed by all the inhab
itants of the civilized world. (Cheers.)
He had regretted most of all to hear
scripture abused and applied for the
perpetuation of slavery. Though they
had nothing more than the golden rule,
it is enough to discountenance it. But,
then, had they not the plain rule that,
roasters are to give to their servants
that which is just and equal”? The
scriptures are on the side of order, and
ha believed that to the end of time the
relationship between master and ser
vant would be essential. A servant is
respectable in his or her place by con
tract; but no man has aright to ask of
another indefinite and unrequited ser
vice. And especially, no man has a
right by the law of scripture, or the
law of nature, to deprive another of the
rights of conscience and reason,and re
duce a human being to a mere chattel.
No man has a right to relieve a hu
man being of his direct responsibility to
God. If it be said of the murderer
that he takes away what he cannot re
call, may it not be said of the man who
stands between the Scriptures of the
mighty God, and the creatures for
whose benefit these were given, that
he takes upon him what he cannot an
swer for at the judgment day. He caa
not bear the burden of his fellow-crea
ture, and yet he depraves him to the
level of the beast, and stands between
him and his hopes of eternity. The
worst slate of incidental oppression in
all the wide range of civilized society
where human rights hire recognised, is
not so low as that where the creature
ie withheld from preparing to meet his
God—of preparing to receive at his
hands the reward of everlasting life.
All the evil# that can ba inflicted of a
temporal kind, cannot be compared to
the evils of slavery. Besides expung
ing a man’s chance of coinfort nod
rational enjoyment in this life; it does
what it can to expunge hope for an
other world. Now, for any man to say
that ChriatianitT eo»n enan«. fh..i a.
to forget the whole purpose of the Bi
ble Tie was quits awars, m reading
the Old Testament there would be
found jwwsegaa, permitting bondage un
der certain restrictions, in regard to
th» Heathen. But no man would say
WHOLE NO. 169.
that, because that special right was
granted to the Jews, that other nations
have that liberty. Neither the pos
sessor of power in the British Empire,
nor even those ton the continent of
America, will say, that they have a
right to extirpate their neighbors with
out provocation. As to the bondage in
he Old Testament, there was a special
<erelation from the Aimi to the I
lews, just as he might employ the pes
iknr* OfJteJWQrd to deal with those
shall be put to death.” And it wtnni
appear that when the Jewe took slaves
from other countries they bought only
their services. By such an argument
it would be seen that the Jewish bond
age was of a different stamp from the
bondage he was talking of; and further,
the Jews were not permitted to make
bondmen of one another. No Chris
tian nation, therefore, could involve in
indefinite bondage their fcllow-crea
tures, and especially those who profess
the faith and hope of Christ. In Ju
dea the servants were admitted by
God’s order to all the privileges rtf re
ligions instruction, to the privilege* ol
their sacred feasts, and their d*jys
and periods of sacred leisure.—
How different this to the slave of the
present day, who may be at the altar of
Odd the one day, and torn away by
his covetous master to the slave market
on the following one. If thus the ar
gument from the Old Testament shows
that an Israelite was not permitted to
hold a brother Jew in bondage, much
less is it permitted to drag into bond
age, or buy and sell men and women,
having one faith, one hope, one God,
one Savior, one law. Being a theolo
gian he wished to dwell more upon that
department of the subject. He would
speak of the New Testament. He
found Paul enjoining upon servants to
obey their masters, as he found in many
passages, in view of the greatness of
the eternal hope, everything that con
stituted a difference between one man
and another treated as a small matter,
comparulively. Christ tells his disci
ples to cherish a patient and meek
spirit, and bear as far as they could
what was thuir inevitable lot. But no
man who reads the Scriptures, can
plead that they give* a right to bring
another into bondage, however it may
be the poor slave’s duty to submit in
quiet to his lot. He is bound to be
faithful. But the Apoatl* Paul says,
that if he can be made free, he is to
use tan* liberty rather. He would
maintain that thiefcanctioned the slave
taking his liberty, though be would not
advise it imprudently—but would tell
him to wait till a good opportunity.
He had no hesitation in saying that it
is a fair inference from that pasaage,
that if a slave can, and if the whole
number can, either by confederation
and united effort or otherwise, secure
their liberty, they have a right to take
it. (Applause.) It is their natura
right, and no man may question thal
right. Or if a man shall question that
right, and shall say they have no right
to take their liberty, he ask him
upon what footing he defended the ob
ligation for that man to remain in ser
vitude. It can only be on the ground
of possession. The man might say he
owned the slave, but could he show
the right of transfer—where did he get
him? Where did he get a right and
title to him? [Applause.] Not event
the slaveholders, who cling most tena
ciously to their ill-gotten wealth, will
say that they hold them by the right ol
conquest, or as men charged with
crime, who are required to be brought
under restraint. But they have then
and they hold them. Opoo this prin
ciple he would say that if a slave b«
bound simply because he is an inferioi
—because he has been subjugated to t
man claiming dominion over him; he it
entitled to take the first opportunity
that presents itself to throw off hii
chains; and if by dint of superior forct
he can make his pretended owner sab
ject to him, he has the same right U
make the master his slave as the mas
ter had for keeping him in bondage
No man has a right to sell himself ioti
indefinite servitude, and no man maj
inflict personal bondage upon his fel
low-man, but so far as right goes, th<
slave bas the same right to subjugati
his master whenever he has power ti
do so. Neither has the right: but hi
defied all the slaveholders in the work
to answer this argument. If by tb<
mere fact of being under another's do
mjnion, a party must be understood a
bound by the Scripture Law to obey
and to obey indefinitely, then the mas
ter who to-morrow should be brough
into subjection by the slave, would b<
brought into subjection by his slave
wsuld be bound by these precepts t<
own his master in turn, and rende:
uiiiet and contented obedience. Thi
Reverend gentleman having again real
the resolution, sat down amidst grea
applause.
Mr. P. Brown said that an importani
part of the resolution, wbieh bo rose M
second hod already boon moch alluded
to by previous epeakere, vie: tio inter
meddling »Ub our neigbbon the
United Sletee. He wee afraid thel
however courteous the language of out
resolution* might be, our sensitive
friends ton the other side would still be
offended. One argument for our in
terference had not been alluded to. 11
it was wrong to remonstrate with our
neighbor# on (bis great question, it
mast be wfcrtg to propagate the Goa*
pel in Heathen eud Mohomedan coun
bribe, for geooioo Cbrietianity broke
6K3iSBISa=S
Societies mutt close their proceedings,
*OO they had no right to expect that
Heathen and Mehomedaa raters would
«how moQp forbearance to them, tli&u
they were disposed to do to those who
held the fame precious faith with
themselves. [Cheers.] But Ameri
cans were not remarkable for their
scrupulosity in interfering with their
neighbors. It is not long since sym
pathisers from the other side were
found on the Canadian soil. It was but
yesterday since an outbreak in one of
the British Kingdoms war fondly
hailed at New York aa the beginning
of a rebellion, that might have torn to
piece* the British Empire—money was
subscribed and emissaries sent to sup
port that movement. More recently
still, when we had a family quarrel in
Canada, the traces of which are al
ready fast disappearing, the sympathi
sers were again at band, and they flat
tered themselves, that because one
house had been pulled down or de
stroyed, we were ready to pull down
the whole, and walk into the Union.
We meant no such interference as that
with their concerns, but as neighbors,
and having the same origin and pro
fessing the same faith, we had an un
doubted right to appeal to them in be
half of theioppressed of their land. It
was customary in the States to defend
slavery on the ground that it was a
British Institution, Nothing could be
hftM».h**AieBa than such a defence,
been a most powerful argument*
abolition." It would have been sounded
in every corner of the land—“ away
with slavery—shall we leave this last
trace of British oppression to diagyaee
our statute book?” African Slavery
was not originally a national movement
of any country, but bad its origin in the
selfishness and cruelty of individuals,
rhe first who stole men from Africa to
make slaves of them were the Portu
guese, more than four centuries ago.
They were followed by the Spaniards
more than fifty years later. For about
two centuries, Englishmen to their dis
grace, partook of the same atrocious
trade. But the day of repentance at
length arrived—Britain bought from
the Spaniards and Portuguese their
discontinuance of the slave trade, a con
dition which they have never yet
performed, and as a crowning act gave
twenty millions to ransom her own
slaves from bondage,—money which
was most cheerfully paid, although it
was equal to all the diminution of the
National Debt, after twenty years
peace, Britain had come out victori
ous from an unexampled war, conquer
ing all her enemies. The victory was
infinitely more noble, for she then con
quered herself. (Cheers.) There was
one thing he regretted in that trans
action—it was, that the lion’s share of
the purchase money was not given to
the blacks instead of being all given to
the slaveholders. Suppose a Judge
bad been empowered to receive the
claims of both parties he would have
asked the slaveholders to specify the
amount of theirs—this might have been
set down in figures, and their loss cal
culated. But weigh that against the
claims of the slaves, and what would it
amount to? Who could calculate a
compensation for the oppression and
helpless bondage endured for genera
tions by that suffering race? Two
thirds of the twenty millions should
have been given to the blacks,and with
the remaining third, the proprietors
would have had flrr more than their fair
proportion. The example of Britain in
emancipating her slaves has been fol
lowed by France, Sweden, and Den
mark, and even the Pacha of Egypt,
and the semi-barbarous Chiefs of the
Principalities of the Danube have set
their bondmen free. Every movement
lately on the European Continent has
been in favor of freedom. In the United
States it has retrograded, Go to Wash
ington, and there we find in their proud
Capitol, the Representatives of twenty
millions of people, in the last year of the
first half of the nineteenth century, leg
islating gravely for ten months—not to
break the shackles of trade—not to
benefit their own people, or the people
of any other country—but to extend the
area of slavery over other countries,
where it does not exist. Unheard of
cruelty! to conquer nation for such a
purpose. It is without a parallel in the
history of the world. But it may be
said, a compromise was effected. True,
California was admitted as a free
State, and why because she refused to
come in on any other terms, and be
cause she carried in her hands a golden
tocher,” which the virtue of our Re
publican neighbors was incapable of
resisting. To balance this great effort
1 of magnanimity, the atrocious Slave
Bill was passed, which cut the Union
1 into two grand divisions—Slaveholders
and Slavecatchers. (Applause.) Good
men in their Legislature have opposed
this iniquitous measure, and that true
patriot, Governor Seward, of New
York, informed his countrymen ihat
there was a higher law than any human
r enactment —the law of the Governor of
the universe, which was ever opposed
to injustice and oppression. But he
1 was ridiculed by his colleagues, and
has been assailed for the noble sentiment, by many public journals. These
I men seem to think that the Almighty
i has given up all control in the affairs
of men, and they rush on the thick
bosses of his buckler. They will yet
discover that He who sit# in Heaven
will have them in derision.” Slavery
I is doomed and must fall, and let the
people of Canada do their utmost in
accomplishing that desirable result.
(Applause.)
r 'rhe Chairman said, after what the
t audience had listened to, they would
I fe#l proud of being British subjects.
t Slave* onnnot live in Britain;
i The moment they touch our shored.
Their shackle* fall.
Hie motion was put and carried
unanimously.
The Rev. Mr. LHlie said, the reso
lution which wiM now be submitted, di
rects your attention to a subject some
what different from the preceding, more
agkeeabfo, *nd one for which he
t Aught they would be prepared by the
able remarks which had been made.
It intheae words—
|Jd.-—“ That this meeting heartily j
bid* God-speed to the noble end ever-
increasing band of Christians end Pa-
-tripts in the United States—-the truest
friends,in thw particular, of their cimn-
[tr* —who publicly plead without fear
of favor, the cantos of their enslavedfellow-subjects, by »11 constitutionsi and
Chiiatian means, pursuing this object with
singleness of aim, and not mixing it up with
ulterior and irrelevant designs.”
The resolution recognizes the faet that in
the United Sutes this most unrighteous sla
very exists, and exists voluntarily, and
that it could not exist were it not voluntary.
That the inheritance of a'avery has been
deliberately retained, while everything else
has beeu thrown off. The resolution also
recognizes the fact, that in these States there
is a noble band of oatriota pleading now, and
have been long pleading without fear or
favor, the causes of their enslaved fellow-sub
jects. It is a noble thiog st a meeting like
this, to have such a fact to recognize. And
at such a meeting where they were called
on, by every honorable principle to condemn
the wrong, it was right and proper to recog
uize the existence of this fact. Because if the
wrong be dragged into light that it may. be
bianded and condemned, it is proper that the
good be pl&eed by its side, in order that it
many have the honor that is due, awarded to
it. “Honor to whom honor is due,” is a
Christian principle of universal application.
To rank, honor is due, because with rank
there is invariably conceived to be associated
virtue. To virtue honor is due. It is due,
therefore, in a large measure, to the men
who, impelled by love to God, and love to
their oountry, come forward and stand in the
biesch, and devote themselves to the removal
of anything, be it what it may, by which
their country is damaged, whether in ila con
stitution or in its reputation. The men that
thus act, lay their country under an obligation
to them. They lay the whole race under an
obligation to them in proportion to the diffi
culties with which they have to contend.
Their claim rises and is in proportion to ti>o
difficulties with which (hey actually have to
battle. They could not over-estimate the
claim of the men who have bad boldness
enough to plead in the face of the prejudices
of persons high in power the rights of their
enslaved fellow-men. Who, in the very face
of storms of vituperation and the threats of
violence with which they have been assailed
—and what is even much worse to bear, the
misrepresentation of their motives—have yet
manfully and determinedly urged the grand
principle of their idolized constitution—“that
all men are born free and equal”—that God
has given to every man the right to use his
own limbs, and to promote his own happi
ness, and that this Tight is never to be taken
from him, unless taken from him as a punish
ment for his crime. Sin, in every form and
of every character, is ruinous; it offends God,
and in this way brings punishment upon the
nation as well as on the individuals who per
severe in it. It leads to destruction as its
natural consequence. The men, then, who
throw themselves between their country and
the commission of sin, whatever be the form
of that sin, or the fallacies used in its defence
—prove themselves to be their country’s
truest and best friends, no matter in what
light they be looked upon by her. They
may be branded as the enemies of their coun
try, and become the victims of their country’s
lawless violence; but by the very act for
which they died, they prove not merely the
sincerity, but the intenseness of their love to
their country. Thus it was with Christ
himself; he came into the world to save the
Jewish people, but a robber was preferred to
him. Let these men then who have given
themselves to the promotion of a good cause
hold on, even though they suffer persecution,
even should it proceed so far as death itself.
Ifit be the duty of a Christian to protest
against sin in every form, and to use every
lawful and honorable means within his retch
to put it down, must it not more especially
be his duty thus to act in relation to slavery,
which is a sin of a most aggravated descrip
tion, and may be called the very concentra
tion of all sin. That is sin which takes the
man, God made in his own image, and
makes a thing of him, to be bought or sold,
and trifled with, and trampled upon, at the
pleasure of a tyrant. That sin which lifts
up against God the high hand of rebllion.
Yet there are those who say slavery is not a
sin. With these men it is a sin for the
slave to free himself, should God give him an
opportunity to do so. With them it is a sin
for the father or the brothw, and even Itn
the wife, the son, or the daughter, to whispet
into the ear of the poor slave that God has
given him a right to freedom. With them it
is a sin to aid the slave in making his escape.
His resolution recognized the fact, that that
band of devoted men who are pleading the
cause of the oppressed is ever increasing. It
is a delightful fact, and calls for gratitude to
God, ana no man had a greater interest in
the breaking up of that droadful system than
the slaveholders themselves. It is a cheering
thought that this band of patriots will go on
increasing wherever Christianity is known.
(Applause.) He had some years ago listened
with pleasure |to the sentiment—There is
but one price in the vast enough to
purchase a man, and that price is the blood
of God’s own son This fact being felt and
realized, it becomes impossible for an indi
vidual to feel, when seeking redemption
through that blood, that he can hold a brother
in bondage, and look upon him as a thing
to buy and sell, without violating every
fundamental piinciple. If they trace the
Church’s history down through its darkest
times, they would discover the genial in
fluence of this noble principle. It was this
principle which banished serfdom from
Britain—the land that has given so many
of us our birth, and which we continue to
love. This principle led the British people
with almost unanimous consent to pay twenty
millions of money that they might get rid ol
the injustice of slavery, and restore to free
dom, the men whose bondage they had them
selves so long countenanced. His resolution
also bids “God speed” to the noble men who
are pleading for their fellow-men. It bids
“God’s speed” to them in the use of all con
stitutional means to pursue with s steady aim
and a single purpose this grand object with
out reference to ulterior designs. The
Reverend gentleman here adverted at some
length to the course pursued by the aboli
tionists, and to the constitution of the States.
The Americans, he said believed their consti
tution was good, but be believed that if it
was worth sixpence there would be a pro
vision in it which gsve them the power to
change it, for no constitution under Heaven
ever made by man can give a right to do that
which is in itself morally wrong. They had
the power to do what was right, sad in the
manly use of that ley their strength.
They were not enemies of America who ad
vocate the abolition of slavery. They de
sired its liberty, its stability, its glory, and
therefore they wished to see all men now in 1
bondage set free, and he trusted ere long to 1
htar emancipation proclaimed throughout the
land. (Applause.)
Rev. Mr. Reaf said he bad great pleasure
in seconding the resolution. He thought it
right to make an addition, and it was to the
effect that in 1846, he and Dr. Willis were
deputed by a meeting like the present, the
last one, he believed, held in Toronto on the
subject, to represent the Municipslity of To
ronto in an anti-slavery meeting in New York.
On that occasion, he not only attended meet- 1
ingsin Now York, but also ia Philadelphia,
and his observation led him to conclude that
while there is sn immense amount of anti-
slavery feeling in the Union, there are very
flaw who ate prepared for real anti-slavery
measures. They regarded abolitionism as
subordinate to others subjects, which are
really of inferior importance. They are
hampered with fear about state rights, the
danger of sacrificing the intereateof churches,
the difficulty of removing slavery, and toon
instead of first resolving that slavery shall be
xemoved at any cost, and then sitting down
to devise the means. It was so ones in Eng
land at last England, resolved “that h should
e abolished,” and then sought the means of
oing in, and did doit, and thenceforth the
name of slave was beard no mote on British
•oil. The object of tbit meeting is not merely
to assert the principles of liberty, bat to re
deem to homwitj Its right*, tkhich cannot ho
coufc ter balanced by any considerations, what*
«Tefr interest or policy be at etake. If they
have a light to keep a nuisance at oar doors,
we hare a rght to denounce it. If oar oast
neighbor was heard abasing his wife, end
ends of murder given, we should break open
the door to help her, and oar conduct would
be morally excusable, whether legally justi
fiable or net. He looked upon the Americans
as making one of the grandest political experi
ments that has ever been attempted but he
wonid rather see their onion blown to atoms,
then that slavery shall continue. If they will
not do away with slavery by moral mesas,
slavery will remedy itself by physioal means,
beeause the multiplication of the colored
population in some parte of the South is much
greater than that of the whites. He trusted
thet news of this meeting, and the formation
of an Anti-slavery Association, would reach
the sieve, and cheer him in his efforts for
self-emancipation. He hoped, indeed, that
the society will aet as a kind of suspension
bridge between her and the States, helping
the poor negroes to escape from bondage, as
well as to find employment and subsistence
when in Canada. They heard of toasts being
drank in rapturous applause, when the senti
ment was given •‘that the Glorious Republic
is the only place where man can be free.*'
Bat while America shouted liberty to Po
ised, to Hungary and to Ireland, they could
join them in the shout and add—liberty to
man. This meeting would have ite weight.
They would hear of it, and may hereafter
hear of the speeches and resolutions adopted
on this side. Besides the people of color will
heat that there is an anti-slavery society in
Toronto, (greet applause.) He hoped that
efforts would be made to help those who es
caped from the land of liberty to find an asy
lum, and to prooure employment for them.
The Resolution was pot and carried unani
mously.
Mr. Thomas Plummer proposed the next
Resolution
4th.—That a Society be now formed, to be
called “the Anti-Slavery Society of Canada,”
the object of which shall be to aid in the ex
tinction of Slavery all over the wot Id, by
means .exclusively lawful and peaceable,
moral and religious, such as the diffusing of
useful information and argument, by tracts,
newspapers, lectures, and correspondence,
and by manifesting sympathy with the house
less and homeless vietims of Slavery flying to
soil.
He trusted that they would continue to dis
cuss this question while there was one negro
slave in the world. They had paid dearly
for the light to do it, and aa a nation they
were pledged to do so. (Applause.) Never
di|d their abolition friends require encourage
ment more than at the present time. The
fugitive slave law appears to have paralyzed
all men. He trusted that if the society was
organized they would let it be seen that they
were the friends, sod not the enemies, of Uie
American people. While they denounce the
great evil, let it be done for the good and for
the honor of America. Americans are our
brethren—they have the blood, and breathe
the spirit of our forefathers. Let us not then
do.aoything which would cause them to shed
that blood, or say anything which woold
wound that spirit. JBut let them meet to
gether on the broad principles of liberty, to
battle against the iniquitous slave law, until
the black man ia aa free as the white.
Rev. Mr. Geikie briefly seconded the reso
lution which was carried unanimously.
It was moved by Capt. Stuart, seconded by
Mr. T. J. Short, and carried
sth.—That a Committee, now to be namud,
■hall be appointed, with suitable officers, who
shall conduct the business of the Society,
have power to make by-laws, and shall meei
on mu eaily day for that purpose—three to be
a quorum.
Rev. Mr. Roaf moved s vote of thanks to
the Mayor for presiding.
The Chairman said he had great pleasure
in co-operating with his fellow-citizens for so
important an object. He thanked the meeting
for their kind attention to the addresses, and
lor the cordial manner in which they had re
ceived the resolutions.
The meeting then adjourned.
®lje Nortt) Star.
ROCHESTER, MARCH 20, 1851.
To Subscriber* !—Subscriber* who rtbld
arrears for this paper, will confer a favor by
remitting the amounts due to us without fur
ther delay. We beg to remind our friends
generally of our rule that payment be made
in advance
Geo« Thompson, Esq., in Rochester.
1 The visit of this distinguished orator and
philanthropist to this city, has imparted an
impulse to the cause of liberty in this section,
which will long be felt and remembered.
Hia efforts have been crowned with a suc
cess which baa far exceeded the most san
guine anticipations of his warmest friends.
For several week* previous to hia arrival
among us, his coming was announeed by the
'‘Daily Advertiser,” in a manner well calcu
lated to arouse all that was narrow, mean,
malignant and mobocratic, in tbs mind and
heart of this community.
Mr. Thompson was denounced as an emis
sary, a British spy,” t” foreign agitator,”
an insolent intermeddler with American in
dilutions,” an enemy to the Constitution,”
a" foul-mouthed libeller” and as deserving
the severest censures of the eitisens of Roch
ester.
The journal above named kept up an almost
incessant fire of this sort during more than a
foitnight, making the most inflammatory ap
peals to the bigotry and baseness of its negro
hating and slavery-loving patrons, and by im
plication calling upon them to deny the right
of speech to the distinguished stranger.—
Mush more cautious, but not less mischievous,
than the course pursued by the “Advertiser,”
was that adopted by the “American”; for
while it was free from the brutal and shame
less aspersions upon Mr. Thompson, which
characterised the former journal, it neverthe
less exerted itself with much adroitness to
east contempt upon the man and the object
that be came to promote. To say that the
whole community was agitated and excited to
a degree hitherto unknown by the approach
of any mao to onr city, is to say what no
nitisen here will be dispoeed to question.—
Serious doubts an 1 apprehensions were enter
tained as to what would be the result of bis
visit. Many thought that personal violence
would be offered to Mr. Thompson if be
should essay to speak on any subject, and
that damage would be done to aoy hall which
should be let for the pnrpoeeof reeeiving'him.
Numerous letters were cent to the proprietor
of the beet hall to the city, threatening vio
lence and d eat ruction should that hall be
granted for n mooting to be add reseed by Mr.
Thompson.
In view of theoe circumstances, it was
deemed beet by our anti-slavery committee,
that the meeting should beheld in brond dsy
light—indeed it was only upon this condition
that’Corinthian Hall, (the most suitable, be
cause the most magnificent in Rochester, if
not in Western New York,) coaid be ob
tained. 1
As seen is this foot was known, the ene
mies of free speech took our discistion 1 m
■one-ion, nod waxed more end mere bold in
their disgraceful end scandalous appeal* to the
projedi— of the oitixeoo against the proposed
meetings, and tgaiool Mr. Those peon. The
sequel of ell thee* threatening eueumsusoea
hoe been such u to cheer end otrengthen the
henna of all thoee in this vicinity who wish
well to the anti-alavety cauee.
The first meeting of Mr. Thoeapeoa was
appointed for Monday, three o’clock, P. M.
large audience aaeembled, bat aired
disappointed, by the failure of Mr. Thoapeon
to reach Rorhcoter ia time to addreei the
meeting.
Tneeday afternoon waa therefore deter
mined upon, aad notice* to that effect were
circulated. The failure of the first meeting
waa aaiaad upon with aridity by tha indig
nant*, and made the occasion of much ta
terapt and ridicule. But Tuesday afternoon
came, and with it came a dens* crowd of tht
but citizens of Rochester to Corintkian Hall,
nor to show their contempt for Thompson,
bat to mark with their moet intense reproba
tion and aoorn, the guilty men, who, abusing
the powera which their poeition enables them
to wield to blast the fair reputation of this
beautiful sity with the deep stigma and di*
grace of a mob.
▲t the time appointed, Mr. Thompas£
r—, and delirered an addr— of surpaadog
eloquence, beauty and power. The ahoutiof
applause, so full, hearty and unanimous,
which interrupted the speaker at rations
points of the addr—, and the total absence ol
aoy expression of oeuaure or disapprobation,
dispelled at onoe all apprehensions of a riot
in Rochester, and thus rerealed the tveakn—
of falsehood and maliee against irutl and tbs
sense of justice in this community.
We gire below the opening and including
remarks of Mr. Thompson en this (session,
I earing the body of his lecture on British
Reform, for a subsequent numheT. —r d.
Mr. Thompson said—Citizens ef lochae
ter, ladies and gentlemenlf I did not stand
before you iu peculiar, 1 might say rboily
unexampled circumstances, it would Is my
duty to eater at ones and without an* ex
traneous preface upoa the discussion <f the
topic upon which I am announced to ▲lirer
1 a lecture.
I fully admit that a departure froq the
i ordinary oourse would, without some arong
1 reasons, be in rery bad taste, more especially
if it should be lo indulge in reference! per
sona] to myself. There are some creum
stanees, howarer, and thay will readilf sug
gest thamaalras to your own minds, why I
stand excused, nay, justified, if I claim your
kind indulgence for a few momenta while 1
attempt to remove the misconceptions which
may exist respecting the character and
designs of the individual who now very re
spectfully solicits your attention. (Partis!
cheering.)
Though a public man, from a distant land,
presuming to apeak openly and fearl—ly upon
avery matter that in my judgment affect* the
weal or woe of the human race, including
millions of those who dwell upon these
shorea; and though I presume, besides, to
speak of the conduct of individuals and bodies
of men in this country as I think, I am utterly
alone. Whatever of kindn—, hospitality or
protection I receive ia spontaneous. I have
no recommendation bat my esuse no creden
tials but my character no weapon of defence
bat a good conscience, and the faculty which
I am new exercising, of addressing the words
of truth and sobern— to those who like yoor
selves are willing to hear me. I frankly
own this ia a bold experiment: yet I have
faith in the people of this great nation, and
believa I shall not teat their generosity in
vain. You are a part of this nation, and 1
deem myself happy in the possession of this
moet favorable opportunity of opening my
heart to you. The only request I make on
my own behalf is, that you will hear me.
More than this I do not ask, and leas than this
lam sure you will not award. (Cheers.)
You see before you a man who, without
the fear of being pointed to auy one set or
word of his life to contradict the assertion,
can say with heart-felt sincerity and ante
carved truth, that he cherishes not a wish in
his soul inconsistent with the honor, the
happin—, the freedom, the increase or the
glory of Amariea. (Cheers.) If any man,
not born upon this soil, and not legally a citi
*en of this nation, can say he is an American,
then eau I calmly look tha moat patriotic na
tive-born citizen in the face and say, “Itoe
am an American (Cheers.) True, lam
not an Ameriean by the accident of birth.
was born in what you regard as a foreign
country. This may have been a misfortune,
but can scarcely ha imputed to me as a crime.
The act waa wholly iuvoloniaty. (Laughter.)
Indeed it was the act of others, rather than
my own while therefore 1 am willing to be
judged' for being here, I am not disposed to
stand ay trial as a criminal for being born
there. (Laughter sod cheers.) True, I am not
an Ameriean from having emigrated to this
great and magnificent land, to improve my
condition. True, stooks, blocks, stoves and
farms have not attracted ms here, thoogh I
rejoice that others have been permitted to
share in them and grow rich thereby. True
I|am not an American because this country
offers to me emoluments and honors to which
I cannot aspire iu my own. Tiue, 1 am not
an American because it is convenient and
fashooable to prof— attachment to the prin
ciples and' institutions of democracy but
I humbly submit I can prefer a better claim
than tk—, for lam an American from hav
ing studied for myself, embraced upon eon
vietioo, and promulgated, in evil and in good
report, the great truths on which the rebellion
of this ooeotry was brooded, iu Declaration
of Independence declared, and all iu institu
tions, rove one, reared to promote the good
government of all, with the consent of all,
for the benefit and freedom of all. (Cheara.)
Such a man should not methinks be obnox-i
ious to hatred or contempt of say who call
themselves republicans. Does an American
thank God, that here, twenty millions of the
human race have foead a country, free from
the shackles of absolute monarchy, the intol
erance of priestly domination, and the sub
jugation of a standing army? So oo 1. (Ap
plause.)
Does an American thank God for his free
dom from taxation—from taxation imposed in
ether —retries, to aaaiotaw the barbarous
pageantry of courts, theluxuriaa end privileges
of e proud sad pampered aristocracy, end a
host of idle miahma, who subsist upon the
wasting toils of the meritorious hat oppressed
children of industry So do I. (Renewed
applause.)
Done an America* exalt ia the spectacle of
rweniy millions of men governing themselves
—the sparkacle of humble merit rating to the
highest offices tbs people hare it in their
power to confer —the spectacle of a country,
where it is not neoeetary that an enterpiiaing
and industrious man should sue with based
breath for leave to live but may work, and
prosper, and rise by his efforts, to comfort
competence sod influence? So do I. (Cheers.)
Does an American pray that this land and
people may he preserved from every event,
and every tendency, that would impair its
strength, diminish its (lory, or menaoe its
prosperity So do 1. (Cheers.)
Does an American desire the institutions
of his own land, which have made men tree,
and secured to them the enjoyment of their
freedom, may be extended* that they may
supplant those forms of governmsnt which
exalt the faw to tbs injury of the many, and
restritt the liberty, and thereby lower the
dignity of those whom God creatad fret and
equal? So do I. (Applauae.)
Does an American, when he counts up tbs
benefits which are his to enjoy, and hia to
transmit, say with a grateful heart—" God
blase America and malts her a bleaaing to
the world So do I. (Great applauae.)
Does an American, looking over the At
lantic, to the land of his sneesttrs, say,
“would that thou wert even aa we are?” I,
toe, can say to my country, "would that thou
vert not only almost, but altogether whet
America is, siva those ionds (Renewed
applause.) O Columbia! Columbia 1
Wouldat thou repeat, and swiftly bring
Forth from the camp the unholy thing—
Consign it to remorseless lire—
Watch, till the lateet spark expire—
Then straw its aebee on the wind,
Nor leave aa atom wreck behind;
How would thy power and wealth increase!
How would thy people dwell ia peace!
On thee the Almighty glory reel,
And all mankind in thee be bleat!
What I have now aaid might peihaps suf
fice to aaauis you, that a friend, and not an
enemy hath eome among you. (Cheers.)
Let me nevertheless sdd s few words. ]f
sny citizen of Rochester bsth sugbt against
me, and believes he esn establish tha truth ol
one of til the imputations which have bean
cast upon me, of cherishing evil designs to
wards this country, 1 invite him to meet me
in the presence of his countrymen end neigh
bors. (Cheers.) If sny citizen of Roches
ter can produces tittle of evidence to show,
that in this country, or my own, or elsewheie,
in any public speech, or private conversatioo,
I ever uttered a sentiment teapecting Amer
ica, or her institutions, at variance with the
trouth, or inimical to the true welfare of this
nation, or uncongenial wiih the spirit and de
sign of the Declaration of Independence, 1
invite him to meet me openly. (Cheers.) II
sny citizen of Rochester, who hss spoken oi
written to my prejudice in my absence, will
now, that I am in person here, intimate hit
willingness to confront me, face to face, 1
am prepared to meet him in a frank, courteous,
and manly manner, (Applause.) I will
also bear the entire expenses connected with
the necessary arrangements for the holding of
a free, but peaceable meeting. If any citizen
of Roehester, competent in the judgment ol
the community, and who is not prepared tc
dispute the opinions which I hold, is never
theless prepared to deny my rioht to uttei
them, I will give a similar meeting, and a
similar guarantee to him, and promise him,
.that he shall find in mean antagonist, whom
he shall be constrained to own a fair and gen
erous one. (Great cheering.) I am, more
over, prepared to submit my opinions, if re
duced to writing, and in the form of distinct
and intelligible propositions, to the judgment
and decision of the enlightened citizens ofthia
place, that they may by their vote record
thsir deliberate verdict>upon the sentiments 1
entertain, and am in the practice of advoca
ting. (Cheers.) 1 ask only for myself, in
the mnanwbile, a'just and impartial hearing
I ask only, that Rochester should ssy to me,
George Thompson, (wbat Agrippa said tc
Paul,) Thou [art permitted i o speak foi
thyself.” (Loud and universal cheers.)
[At this stage of the proceedings, Mr.
Thompson quitted his position behind the
lecturer's stand, and advancing on one side
to the edge of the stand, said to the most sol
emn, emphatic, and impressive manner.]
Ladies and Gentlemen Ycu have heard
the invitations I have given, and the guaran
tees I have offered. I rely upoo your sense
of justise to make known whstl have thus de
liberately said. It is a matter of public noto
riety that I have been assailed in your city by
chargeethe most heavy, and by epithets thai
could only be deserved by a man of superhu
man depravity and malevolence. If there is
no foundation in truth and fact for the as
saults, I must leave you to judge of the
character of those who have made them. If
there be, you have heard my challenge, and
I trust you will remember it. If, hereafter,
these charges should be reiterated, demand of
him who makes them, where he was on this
the 11th of March, 1861, and why, in juatice
to himself, his bity, and his country, he was
not here to fees the roan against whom bis
accusations ejbre hurled. Alone, I am pre
pared to meet my accusers. Alone, I will
scatter their weapoos to the winds, or de
part a disgraced man from their city. You
that dare accuse me, appear and face me, or
forever hide yoor beads. (Great applause.)
If, till my accusers appear, it will be any
satisfaction to the members of this audience
to hear my answers to a few questions, I will
put them to myself, and answer them.
Were yon not bora in a king-ridden tax*
ridden country, where it is the opinion of
maoy, that the laigeet part of tha people
were created like horses, with saddles on
their backs, and bits in their mouths; and the
other portion (the aristocracy) born, booted,
and spurred, with whips in their hands, to
mount and ride the majority? (Laughter.)
I answer, I wae bora in such a country;
but it has been the work of my life, siaee I
was eepeble of elothing my thoughts in lan
guage, and eoeld get the bit ovt of my own
mouth, to teach my fellow-horses tbst they
were as good as their riders; (great ap
plause,) that they had the power, Ilf they
knew it,and would exert it, to toae then rider*
gently off, and to exchange tha saddle of
servitude for the toil of free-labor, sad tbs bit
oi subjection far the aoepire of aelf-control.
(Renewed sheen.)
Did you not grew up to to ignorance of
the great event* which had made thiaooun-
try free: and did you not, when you hoard
of thorn, imbibe the prejudices of your coun
trymen, and learn to scoff at RepubUoao In*
stitutiona? 1 answer, When 16 yuan of
age, I heard one of the moat eloquent men in
England deliver an eulogy on the character
of Gkokgi Washington. That oration first
broaght before me the revolutionary history
of this country and since that time, I have
been aw admirer of its institutions, a vindica
tor of the revolution, and an earnest well
wisher to the stability, the permanence, and
the prosperity of this nation. (Great cheer
ing)
Have not your aots as a public man been
inconsistent with this professed sympathy
with the political principles and form of gov
ernment in thin nation I answer, I have
not thought so, snd do not now think so.
Fully believing with Thomas Jefferson, thst
"God has created all men free snd equal."
I early engaged in the great struggle for de
livering from bondage 800,000 human beings,
held in slavery in the British Colonies, and
did not cease my labors, until they wore
emancipated. I afterwards exerted myself,
successfully, to complete their freedom by
the abolition of s system of apprenticeship
which deprived them of the fruits of their in
dustry.. (Cheers.) Have you not been a
member of the body called the East India
Company, whose career in India, for a cen
tury, haa been one of fraud, of treachery and
of violence; and whose government at this
time is opposed to the rights snd interests of
millions of the human rsoe. I answer, Yes,
1 became s member of that Company, thst I
might have the opportunity of exposing and
denouncing the rapine and injustice of which
it haa been guilty. I did so for many years.
I openly impeached, in their own court, and
in parliament, the conduct of the company,
and called upon my countrymen to wrest from
a chartered oligarchy the power which had
been abused. For this l|received the hatred
and persecution of the company, and the
thanks and blessings of the injured children cl
India. (Loud applause.)
Have you not been in league with political
parties opposed to the rights of the people 1
You shall judge. Until 1840, I never identi
fled myself with any political movement. At
that time, the government was instituting
State prosecutions against the chartists in all
parts of the kingdom, and the jails were filled
with their vietims. It waa then I resolved no
longer to be neutral in politics, so came out,
and identified myself with those whom the
government were opposing, and declared my
adhesion, for better and for worse, to the
principles of chartism. Ever since, while
more than any man besides, I have censured
the excesses of some of the chartists, 1
have stood by their doctrines on the suffrage,
and have voted and spoken for them in the
House of Commons. (Loud applause.)
Are you not a British emissary, and the
paid spy of the Government! Here I an
swer, Though, of right, eligible to attend
every levee of my sovereign, I was never in
her presence-chamber but once, when 1 was
eharged to present an address to her, signed
by 133,000 of the women of Scotland, in be
half of the slaves of the West Indies. I
have sever bad a private aadienceof any
members of the Government in my lite. I
have never accepted single invitation to the
parly of a member of the Government in my
life. To this hour, Ido not know where the
Treasury is, where members go to ask favors
of the Government; nor could a member ol
the Government know of my intention to visit
America, until he read of it, with all the
world besides,in the columns of the public pa
pers. (Renewed cheers.)
Have you not voted for measures to coerce
and oppress the people of Ireland 1 Hear my
answer to an Irishman in New York, who
labored under a mistake on that subject
Littlx Falls, Feb. 22, 1851.
Sir I have only just received your letter
of the 15lb instant, for which I thank you,
because it affords me the opportunity of re
moving from your mind an erroneous impres
■ion respecting my course in Parliament on
the subject of Ireland. Accept in a candid
spirit the explanation I am about to give you.
I was returned to mtvo in Parliament in
1847. In November of that year we were
called together to consider the condition of
Ireland. I firmly resisted, both with voice
and vote, every measure of coercion proposed
by the Government, and demanded the entire
abolition of the Protestant establishment—a
bill securing to tenants their full rights, and
the extinction of the last remaining disabili
ties imposed upon my Irish Catholic brethren
on account of their religion. Throughout
three sessions of Parliament, my conduct was
the same, and towards the close of the last
session of 1850, when most of the Irish mem
bers had left London, I moved amendment
after amendment, and spoke again and again,
in resistance to the proposal to continue the
unconstitutional powers of the Lord Lieuten
ant. This I did up to the twelfth hour, tho’
without effect. 1 have never given a vote
against Irish liberty in my life, and Ireland
never had a firmer friend, as Mr. O’Connell
well knew and acknowledged. Remember
there are thret Thompsons in the House of
Commons. I will forfeit five hnndred dollars
when my name can be produced as a voter in
or a speaker out of Parliament in favor of
any measure for the coercion of your country
or the abridgment of its liberties.
You are in error. If you are a true ossa,
you will hssten to do justice to one who caji
honestly assure you thst there breathes not a
man who loves Ireland better than
GEORGE THOMPSON."
Have you not written verses, breathing an
unfriendly spirit towards this country Never.
I once wrote a short piece, which I am sorry
I cannot remember. I scribbled it as 1 ret
under a tree in Upper India, on the 4ih of
July, 1843. It commenced
"And caret thou, America, say thou art ran,
"Whilst the slave beads, in fetters, his rapplisnt
knee."
I cannot remember how it proceeded, but I
know it ended with a fervent prayer for the
redemption and glory of the country. More
recently, however, we had those sweet min
strels,the Hutchinsons, in England, and while
they were at my house, I sided and abetted
in the getting up of a song for them to sing in
the Queen’s Concert room. It waa the period
of the dispute on the question of the Oregon
boundary. I believe I can recall the hoes
which were sung, the fret verse to the tune
of our national anthem, of God save the
Queen," and the last to your own lively air,
of "Yankee Doodle.’’
Oh may the human reef,
Hwva'i menage sooa embrace,
1 “Good will to men."
Hulked be the battle's cosed,
And o’er the earth around.
May leva and peace shooed,
Through every lead I
Oht thee shall come the fterioao day
When swords and spsirs shall parish
Aad brotbars JoU and Jonathan
Tha kind**! thought* shall cherish.
Than, Oragon so wort shall fill
With angry dart* our quiver.
But Englishman with Yankaaa dwsli
Oa the for Columbia rirar.
Ttwa lat us basts those boada to kail,
Aad in tha work bs bandy;
Aad wo will blond “God sore the Qossa”
With Yankee doodle dandy."
I have now told you the wont 1 think, feel
or wish, regarding thia country. Oh! believe
me, if my prayer might be heard, it ahonld
be aa full of freedom and happineaa aa it ia full
of ail that ia gtand and and majestic in in na
tural scenery and we in England and you in
America ahould be brother#—interchanging
kind officers—reciprocating benefits—provok
ing only to love and good work*— united, if
not by the ties of government and human
Uwe, by the bright ethereal bonds of mutual
leva, esteem and admiration. (Cheers.)
Every root of bitterness ahould be extorted,
And hearts that had baas long estranged,
Aad fneads that had grown cold,
Should neat again, liks parted streams,
And mingle as of old.
But the last question I will put to myself, is
this: Have you nothing to tell thia audience
about British reforms? for those who are
here expect that you should leature on that
subject. (Laughter.) And so 1 will, if not
folly to-day, at some othet time (cheers,)
but I thought it my duty to let my friends a
i little into the heart of the man who sill again
f and again address the citizens of Rochester,
(renewed cheers,) until they have searched
and proven him, and seen if there be any way
of wickedness in him. (Great applause.)
i After the above ihtroduction, Mr. Thomp
son proceeded with the lecture on British
Reforms. Thia lecture we shall publish in
extenso next week. We shall afoo lay before
our readers a verbatim report of Mr. Thomp
son’s add rest on Colonization, founded en the
I speech of the Hon. Henky Clay, before the
i Annual Meeting of the Colonization Society.
F One of onr city papers has represented this
discourse of Mr. Thompsons’ as a tirade of
I abuse against the "gallant Harry of the west.”
Our readers shall possess it and judge for
themselves. The twelve bundled person
i who listened to Mr. Thompson, when he die
sected the speech of the Kentucky Senator,
I need not be imfoimed that not one diarespect-
I ful word fell from the lips of the speaker,
i We shall only add to the report given above,
the closing words of the lecturer,
i Let me conclude the lecture to which you
have now so kindly listened, with s few
words of fraternal counsel, as from a friend
i of human liberty, to those who have the
power to aid the good cause. You doubtless
desire the progress of those principles ol
freedom which have conferred so many blesa
i ingson the people of this country. Koow,
then, that it is in your power to succor us in
i our present struggle. Do not regard us si
your enemies, bat as friends and brothers,
and aid us by your words of sympathy and
i good cheer. If a public man from England,
i who, in his own land, has ranged himself on
I the side of the people, against proscription
and class legislation, come to these shores,
let him not be treated as though he were re
sponsible for the abuses which prevail in hii
own country, but let him be commended foi
i his honest though unsuccessful efforts, and
animated by your God speed.” (Cheers.)
i Continue to give us the benefit of youi
i wholesome rebukes, and show to our people
r the more excellent way. Spare not whom
soever and whatsoever you may observe
amongst us that is opposed to the true spirit ol
liberty. But at the same lime give your cen
sutes and your admonitions force, by exhibit
ing a willingness to allow those things in
you which strike us as anomalous, or as in
i jurioua to the cause of general freedom, to be
pointed out; and deem us not your enemies
because we tell you the truth. (Cheers.)
In England, we cherish high and exalted
views of democratic and republican principles,
and we look to this country to see them car
ried out with impartiality and success. Dc
not compel us to lower those views, or to
look upon your gieat experiment with sorrow
or disappointment. Let it not be said that
you abuse your freedom, and that it ia less
safe to promulgate unpopular views here,
than in countries where the institutions are less
free and democratic. Leave truth a foir field
on which to combat error, and fear not the
result.
Let not the enemies of the human race,
who would fain obstruct the march of the
people to the attainment of their rights, be
able to point to this country for the proof,
that here, where men are free, speech is not
free that s stranger is free to flatter, but not
to condemn and that the only opinion which
is piohibited from beiog uttered and pro
claimed, is the opinion, that men are free
and equal, and that in this country, as well
as in all the world besides, every yoke ahonld
be broken, and every captive delivered from
his chains.” Let there be at least the lib
brty ot free utterance, and a practical recog
nition of the right of mao to speak with bis
fellow-man on the great subject of the rights
and destinies of humanity. (Cheers.)
Above all, you may aid us by giving a
wider range, and more impartial application
to the sublime principles of roan’s emancipa
tion, on which your own freedom has been
achieved. You can show us the godlike ex
ample of a nation u> ing its power to lift up
the fallen—to viudicate the cause of those
who have been wronged—to bestow the liberty
it has conquered—to make one quarter of the
earth all hallowed groundand to spread
by its sets, more the* by its piotensions, the
spirit of liberty to the remotest habitations ol
man. Ob l aid us thus, and we will Bing
back the taunts which the despots of the
earth throw in our teeth! (Loud applause.)
You have now heard the man who is rep
resented as having come from abroad to
abuse, slander, vilify and blaekgoard ibis na
tion and people.” Hsar bis worst wish.
May He who hath planted your feet o* tide
groat Continent, and made you a mighty na
tion—who hath given yon an iaheritaace ex
haestleas in its riches, as it is limitless in its
extent-who bath caused yon tp lie down ie
green pastures, beside still wattrs, aad
crowned your existence with loving kindnesses
and tender mercies, may He tarn yow
hearts to a consideration of what you owe to
Hina for this long catalogue of bieasingv, aad
this boundless prospect of futnre good May
He dispose you to look with feelings of jostles
to the condition of (boss millions who sigh
and piss in bondage within thia land! May
ho put it into your minds to ariss for theix
deliverance, and may He giant aeeeam to
your labor*. Then a hall you he indeed a
free and happy people—when the glorima
ran, aa he goee forth from the chamber* of
the eaat to ran hie race, shall not, from hm
naing to his setting ray, behold o'er all this
magnificent realm, the maasioa of a haughty
tyrant, nor the hoyel of a crouching afar*.
(Mr. Thompson act down amidst the raiton
ted pUodita of the assembly.)
Mnaa Anti-Slavery Conientlon la
Rochester.
This Convention assembled m Coriathisn
Hall, on Thoreday, March IStb.at 10 o'clock
A. M., end organised by the appointment of
JAMES SPERRY, President; L. M. Mooat,
A. H. Jarvis, Yiee Preedsat*; Damiml
An»ont, Julia GaurriTas, Secratahae. A
Busineae Committee was appointed oa-Mjw
of five, via: FaaoiaicK Douslass, s. D.
Poster, S. S. Foam, A. K. F ostia,
Sally Holly.
The firat seaaron of the Convention, after
the nomination of officers, commenced by ee
address from the Chairman, whose interesting
remarks, upon the present aspect of anti*
slavery affairs, were listened to with marked
interest. Mr. Sperry appeared to regard the
present with feelings of deep seriousness, and
yet with faith an*) bop*.
He wa* followed by Liodley Murray Moore,
who gave an account of the early anti-slavery
efforts in this city.
A short addiess was mpde by Fradtriek
Douglass, who gave a moat touch mg picture
of the distress occasioned by the Fugitive
Slave Law, and portrayed in vivid colors the
dangers and difficulties by which the friends
of freedom are now environed.
Mr. Douglass was followed by Mrs. Foster.
She failed to ace in the present aspect of
affairs the cheerless end dreery prospect
which had beclouded (he spirit of Frederick
Douglass and she addressed the meeting at
considerable length, congratulating the friends
of freedom on the glorious critic which had
now arrived. The abolitionists had accom
plished what they bad long ago desired to
accomplish. They had brought Millard Fill
more end William Lloyd Garrison face to
face, and had brought Slavery and Freedom
to a hand-and-hand struggle.
The meeting here adjourned.
Met at 3P. M. The hall was thronged
by a largo audience to hear Mr. Thompeoo,
who it was understood would speak that af
ternoon.
After e few remark* from Mr. Douglass,
George Thompson, Esq., ascended the plat
form, and was greeted by a about of applause
which attested the high respeet and warm
cordiality felt in Rochester towards the dis
tinguished and eloquent champion of human
liberty and brotherhood. At the call of mul
titudinous voices, Mr. T. proceeded to iddrnee
(be meeting. He took up the question re
peatedly put to him since his arrival in this
country, aa to 11 what he had to do with
American slavery V and moat ably did he
answer that question. He denied that, io
meddling with slavery, he was meddling
merely with an American question. If was a
human question before it became an American
question. The system might be local, but
the principle was universal. Once grant that
the Americtu may hold propetty io man, and
we concede the principle by which the Egyp
tian, the Turk, the Russian, may do the same
thing. Indeed, America had made the sub
ject of slavery a subject for the whole civil
ixed world. She had cast three millions of
her people forth upon the sympathise of man
kind, utterly refusing to take cognisance of
them herself. It was said that he spoke here
without invitation, but he was invited by the
groans and taars of speechless millions to
plead their cause;
[The Secretary can do no manner of justice
to this part of Mr. Thompson's speech,which
was masterly in the extreme, and at times
sublimely eloquent.]
He next glanced et the American alsvs
trade, and showed that, in all its essential
characteristics, it was equal in cruelty and
barbarity to that carried oo on the coast of
Africa. Every wind from the South,
•aid he, comes to us freighted with the
sighs and tears of his victim.” Slavery wao
a perpetual act of tyranny against three mill
ions. The stupendous wickedness of slavery
could nor be grasped nor fathomed. The
certain consequences of retaining slavery in
America, were pointed out in a fearfully
powerful manner, and the doom of Assyria,
Memphis, Babylon, Greece and Paraepolis,
was held up in biasing eloquence, warning the
American people against the longer continu
ance among them of this system of iniquity.
There wee a deep shudder manifest through
the audience, as Mr. Thompson lifted the
veil and displayed the desolation sod ruin into
which mighty nations and empires had fallst.
in consequence of their wickedness, end wbeo
he demanded io tones of thunder, Can
Americana defy the omnipotent God Tho
matchless orator again denied that the ques
tion of alavery was exclusively an Ameriean
question. The slave was a brother. It warn
m Atman question. The slave possessed a
living soul. It wa* a religious question. It
was e question of labor, and of commerce.
Here Mr. Thompeoo treated the audieaco
to a brilliant conuscation, illustrating tho dif
ference between free and slave labor, and be
stowed a well-merited encomium upon the
industry, enterprise, rapid growth and beauty
of the eity of Rochester, sod closed this part
of hia address by aaying, God Mass you
and increase you a thousand fold
Speaking of slavery aa a religious question,
Mr. Thompson said, “Tell mo that God
sanctions slavery, and I will look op to heaven
ao more Tell ms that God vnetioot do
very, then farewell toe God of lovo!" Thors
was something absolutely thrilling io these
words; ae they fell from the lips of tho
speaker. The whole speech oo this occasion
waa a raeater-piece of eloquence, end it pro
duced an electrifying effect on the vest audi
ence assembled.
S. S. Faster now essayed to apeak. The
attempt was a hazardous one. The audience
had been ao completely enraptured by the tl
oquenoe of Mr. Thompson, that there appear
ed little disposition to boor any one tfee.
The meeting now adjourned. 1,
Friday morning at ten o’clock, the Coeven
tioa re-assembled.
After a song from Mr. G. W. Clarks 3
S. Fester addressed the meeting. Hin re- J
marks won directed to show the pulidptUon
of tho obareb in !k*]gtai of AmT h, 1
SLST"’
Mr. Thompson'■ address on this occasion
was on tbs condition of tbs colored people of
tbs United States. He deeply sympathised
with them in their present hopeless, cheerless
and melancholy forebodings. Theie rested on
their cause, at this period, shadows, clouds
and darkness Yet he was inclined to a
more hopeful view of the condition, than
many of the most thoughtful among them
selves were disposed to lake. [Since this
speech was decidedly the most powerful of
any delivered by Mr. Thompson during the
Convention, and since we have but imperfect
notes of the same, and there is a probability
of our having that speech from Mr. Tbomp
son’e own pen, we shall omit here the publi
cation of the Secretary's notea of it, in the
hope of laying it before our readers in its full
beauty, power and completeness.]
AXTZRNOON MCKTINO.
By two o’clock, the vast hsll wss again
thronged. A string of resolutions were read
by Frederick Douglass, upon which he made
a short speech, at the close of which, the res
olutions ware adopted
S. S. Foster now reoommended the anti
slavery newspapers to the notice of the peo
ple. “Toe North Star” was held up as
especially deeervieg the sympathy and sup
port ot the friends of the slave in this region.
Aries this,
forward to address the meeting. He regarded
the vaatnees of the audience si a gladdening
spectacle, and expressed his sense of the deep
responsibility resting upon one who presumes
to address a msss of his fellow-creatures.
If,” said the speaker, for every idle
word which one man may tay to another
he ia to give an account in the great day of
reckoning, how awful is the responsibility,
“of addressing a multitude like that before
me.”
Mr. Thompson said much in his opening
remarks, on the importance of speaking the
truth. We are wrong, angTy and avaricious,
because not true. Truth now dwells but par
tielly, it shall dwell universally among man
kind.
Mr. Thompson’s afttrnoon speech was a
searching review of the colonisation scheme,
as aet forth in the recent speech of Henry
Clay, before the American Colonization So
ciety, on the 34th Anniveiaary. He deemed
that speech important, because it had given
tone to the press, and because it governed
the opinions of the mass of the people. The
scheme of colonization had been recently re
vived, and is designed to be carried out by
State law. Missionaries from that society
are being sent about in all directions.
The Kev. Randolph Gurley had been
lately sent to Libeiia on this mission. An
other emissary had been dispatched to Eog
gland to mislead the minds of the people
there on the subject. One miltiou of dollars
had been lately bequeathed to the society by
a tieh planter in Louisiana. Large steamers
are being built, expressly to transport the
free colored people to the shores of Africa,
and to an unhealthy and unhoapitable cli
mate, and the society implores the blessing
ef heaven on its labors! Only think of it.
It ia the glory of America that veaaela are
bound to her shores, bringing freights of op
preseed human beings from every clime
under heaven. America “Acs bread enough,
emd to spare" for all such. But her vessels
are bound to the western shore of Africa,
transporting a portion of her people there, to
find their graves far away from the land of
their birth. The Colonization Society does
not seek, nor desire to touch the subject of
slavery, nor to provide for the slaves. That
society only deaiiea to carry off the free col
ored man. The colored man who ia being
whipped, and gagged, and acatred, at the
bidding of a cruel master, he may not go, but
the/ree colored man who is honestly and in
dustriously earning his living, and providing
for hit family, he must go. To send the
slave, would, indeed, be a mercy.
Mr. Thompson here read an extract from the
epeech of Mi. Clay, refering to the degraded
condition of the free colored man, which
be followed by one of the moat pathetic
aimilee we ever remember to have heard, and
of which we can give but a faint portraiture.
See yon plant, fading, withering and dying.
It ia placed where no refreshing showers can
descend upon it, and where no gently falling
dew can revive it—blame not the plant, it
does bat 11 follow the law of its condition,”
but blame the gardener, who suffered it to
pine away neglected and uncared for. Ani
sic* Thou art the husbandman; the col
ored people are the plants committed to tby
care. God had placed them in a garden
where they could have bden nurtured, and
brought up healthily and carefully, but thou
hast transplanted them and rudely torn them
away from all that ia genial, and if they
art degraded, if they are criminal, I turn
to the negro-hater, who jeetingly points out
the guilty creature, and I say, Thou art the
man.”
The eloquent speaker then exposed most
ably the various sophistries and machination*
of the Colonization Society, and gave a seriet
of opportane illustrations of the various meth
ods panned by the emissaries of that Society;
and dosed his speech by an earnest and
heart-felt appeal to the American people to
redress the wrong they had so long inflicted
on three millions of thsir people; that the
Soothers winds should come wifted no moic
with the sighs and groans of a single slave.
The meeting then adjourned.
JULIA GRIFFITHS,
Assistant Sec*y.
Letter from H. O. Wtfontr.
Chicago, 111., Match 3d, 1851.
Fkiiho Douclam lf I could advance
any new or additional arguments to those al
ready advanced by youtaelf and others,
against the Colonization scheme, as advoca
ted by Henry Clay and otheis, I would gladly
avail myself of the opportunity but the
whole ground has been fully canvassed, and
therefore, there ie net room for me to add
anything new or interesting upon the subject.
1 think, however, that it can be safely said
that the sentiments of the most intelligent of
our people, throughout the Union, are op
posed to leeving the country, while three
millions of our fellow-countrymen remain in
•iavary. What could waar the appearance of
meanacM sod eowardioe, more then that of
abandoning the country, leeving our enslaved
brethren to the mercy and despotic ooatrol of
a people and government, whose only aim
a rams to he the devising of new pleas of op
and degradation? But surely if
moral influence, the medium of which it is
said we are to effect the abolition of slaver;
in ibis country, is to be relied upon, it does
seem to me that we could better effect the ob
ject by remaining here, than by going to Af
rica, from whence we would have to throw
our influence acroas the Atlantic, fiat the
truth is, we know that the authors of the
Colonization scheme, were the very men, of
all others, who were anxious to get rid of us,
and they could devise no better scheme to
get ua out of the country than through the
medium of their pretended friendships of bet
tering our condition by eolooiaing us is Af
rica. fiat your ninth Lecture, in Corinthian
Hall, Rochester, February 9d, ’5l, is full of
argument upon the subject, and ia much bet
ter adapted to the purpose than anything 1
could aay in this communication. But when
I reflect upon the condition of our people in
this country, and behold the gloomy prospect
before us, I am forced to ask, in the name of
high heaven what ia to become of us 1 But,
in the midst of all this dreariness and gloom,
may 1 not say, that doubtless a God of jus
tice and mercy will yet awaken to our dis
tresses.” But, says some of our learned di
vines, How awaken to your distresses I an
swer, by diffusing moral light and a love of
liberty among the people.” Can any man,
Vtflwt Wae sninJ ss —J f «m«I ak#
means of information within his reach, say
that light ia not bursting in upon us from
every quaitar Does not all Europe give
ugns of the dawn of light? And does not
sll civilization give'testimony to the same im
port And is not this some encouragement
for us to be patient, and to wait a little
longer for the good time coming.”
Coeval with moral light ia the love of lib
erty and when tha love of liberty dies en
tirely out of the hearts of the people, we may
still look for progress, however slow, in the
lirection of true liberty. Nor should we be
liscouraged by the efforts which are being
put forth from certain high sources, to stifle
tnd to check the tide of light and liberty
tmong the people,” and especially when we
tre reminded that freedom is not a gift of
nan, but of God and we believe that no gift
►f God can taken from us by
mortal man. Great Britain had not the
power to lake it from our Revolutionary i
lires, and it is to be hoped that future gene
rations may never have the power to annihi
ate it.
But 1 do not say the Colonization scheme
a wholly incapable of doing good. But sup
pose it were to succeed, in a long time, in
solonizing all Africa, that free one
slave in America, when the professed object
jf its founders were,)not to send the slave
there, but the free people of color only.
It is also contended as an objection to the
mmediate emancipation of the slaves, that
hey would be incapable of self-government,
were they all to be let loose at once, without
the necessary preparation. But how does it
happen that the moment they become free m
this countiy, they are afonce capable of self
government in Africa, without any furthet
preparation. Surely if we, though a cor
rupt class,” would be good citizens, and ca
pable of self-government in Africa, why
should we not be equally yo in America? But
it must he acknowledged, by sll sound, sober
thinking men, that however well those men
may argue on other aubjeeta, yet, on this sub
ject, they seem to lose sight of all consist
ency. What man, endowed with a common
share of talents, would have ventured to
throw out to the scrutiny of the civilized
world, such crooked and cripp)ed-up logic as
that of Daniel Webster’s on the exclusion of
slavery from California and New Mexico by
the geography and climate of those territo
ries. Suppose one of out corrupt and disso
lute class,” had ventured to present to the
enlightened people of the United Stales, such
silly and simple arguments as those of Dan
iel Webster’s just referred to, what would
have been said by a great majority of the
people why, it ia just like the reasonings
of a thick-headed nigger, what else could we
expectbut, not so in this case, for this is
the great expounder of the Constitution.”
If Webster were to say that the city of Bot
ton is in the State of Maine, there are those
who would believe it, and who would aay,
All right; it must be so, Webster has said it.
But no, the free people of color, should be
awake to all subjects of the day, pertaining
to our weal or woe, and should endeavor to
assume some position, and to act in accord
ance with reason and principle. But before
I close, permit me to observe, that, in order to
become anything in this country, we cannot
too strongly enforce, nor too often remind uur
people of the necessity of cultivating our
minds, and of leaving the large cities and
towns snd resorting to the woods. There is
no use of disguising facts, for the truth is, we
will have to come to this sooner or later, and
we might as wall make a break now, aa at
some futute period. Every new arrival of
emigrants from the Old World tends to has
ten the period. Let us look to these things,
snd put forth our best efforts in the matter,
and trust in God for success.
Yours, aa ever,
H. O. WAGONER.
Letter from George Weir.
Buffalo, March 15th, 1851.
Mr. Editor— Sia :—I wae somewhat as
tonished to find in yonr paper of the 13th
inet., an article copied from the New York
Evening Poet, in relation to the effects of the
Fugitive Slave Bill in Buffalo, stating that
one hundred and thirty communicants from
the coloisd Baptist Church had left, for fear
of arrest on the charge of being fugitive
slaves, and also that the Methodist Church
had lost a considerable number from the same
cause. From whatever source this informa
tion emanated, allow me to inform you that
it is ioeorreet, and instead of the large number
spoken of, not three have left from either
shurch, and I know that not three have left
from the whole eity therefore the report it
entirely incorrect and without the least shadow
of foundation. The Boffalooiaua are mads
ap of different stuff. We are not so easily
frightened sa to leave our homes m conse
quence of any such machinations of the
Devil; and I imagine that it would require
more force than any of the Fillmore clique
could summon in Buffalo to drive us from the
homes of our adoption, at least in such num
bers as spoken of. We have long since con
sidered the matter, and have ootoe to the
conclusion that we have a right to live here,
and also that wa have a right to use the some
means to maintain our rights that our raWu
nonary fathers taught us so a osrtain occa
sion.” No attempts have been made here as
yet to arrest any one. Oar city has so joyed
a quietude and repose which it is devoutly to
be hoped may continue. But when it shall
1m broken, Buffalo will be beard from.
Youia, die.,
GEORGE WEIR, Ja.
1 Mam CmrntiM.
On Wednesday and Thursday next, ih«
96th and 27th, inst, ao Anti-Slavery Con*
vention will be held in Lockport, which will
be attended by George Thompson, Rev. S.
i J. May, F. Douglass, and Mr. and Mrs.
7 Foster. The meeting will commence at 10
o’clock, A. M., and will be continued
throughout the afternoon and evening. Come
one—come all!
▲■other Oatbarst of Malaee and Morti
fication from the American.
Duting the last week, we studiously avoid
ed mingling st all in the agitation occasioned
by the advent and antics of George Thompson
and hia followers. The other presses of this
city, devoted more or less space to the events
that quickened into life st the approach of
Mr. Thompson, and which matured under
the fertilizing influences of his rtay. Under
standing, however, that Mr. Thompson, with
characteristic egotism, toook occasion to sneer
at the American, because it had not informed
tin readers of nts coming, and with the sue
cess of hia mountebank gyrations, it were a
breach of courtesy not to respond, though we
neither wish nor hope to emulate the reckless
assertion, the wanton calumny and ribald abuse
that marked too great a portion of the pro
ceedings in which he bare a part.
The gentleman from England was not alone
in his abuse of us, but divers gentlemen from
Africa, and hybrid nondescripts, neither fish
nor flesh—albeit foul turned several pretty
sentences, and pointed several elegant
periods, with the gratifying remark, that ws
were “struck dumb”—“were mum,” &c.,
all of which occasioned howls of applause,
and put the assembly of disorganize!) into
marvellous good humor.
Perhaps the most marked incident of the
week was the attempt of Mr. Thompson to
brow-beat tbs public, which we will give, in
the language of the Democrat. That paper
said ou Thursday:
Were it true that this peisoo, (George
Thompson) indulges in vituperative assaults
upon the Government and Constitution of
this country, we should agree fully and
ordially with the Com Adv. in commend
ing him to the ‘silent contempt’ of the people.
But we find no language, used in his dis
course, that could be so construed and ws
are ready to judge him by bis acta, and not
prejudge him from hearsay and misrepresent
ation. In the commencement of his address
on Tuesday afternoon, he called upon any
one who eould do ao to convict him of any
one of the offences against hospitality which
are charged upon him, promising, in case
they were /or one moment substantiated, to
immediately leave the city and country.
Tbe Rochester Herald, (Free Soil,) a few
days previous, iu attempting to answer an
ai tide in the Advertiser said that to reiterate
a cettain statement attributed to Mr. Thomp
son, waa to progagate a lie, and only
“caitiffs” would do it, or wcrda to that
effect—but we are sure about tbe "caitiff."
The sentiment is as follows
There isn’t a rood of earth on the globe
that is not more sanctified by the spirit ol
liberty than Republican America. And that
“Nothing is contraband in this country bui
truth and honesty.”
The Advertiser did reiterate it—the papei
waa read by Thompson, and the “caitiff” ac
knowledged it! Moreover, he declared “tha
tbe words were just and true—that he wisher
them transmitted to hia children, sind inscribe*
as an epitaph on his tomb,” and we are toU
that some of the audience applauded him—
that they sent up their shouts of joy at thi
uttaranee of such mendacious and abusivi
sentiment, and laughed in fiendish glee wher
told that in tbe country of their birth onlj
“truth and honesty were contraband,” anti
this by a vagrant libeller, an offshoot from
the unnatural growth of the heart of crowded
London—a brazen-faced contemner of the
hospitality that sheltered him in Rochester,
and the healthy public sentiment that pro
tected him from a penalty that in hia own
home, and own “roiod” of free land, would
have been bestowed upon him unstintedly.
We know that the many well-meaning citi
zens who were present on that afternoon,
actuated by motives of curiosity, loathed tbe
monster that dared thus to insult them.
Mr. Thompson doubtless thought, having
boldly declared his intention to leave Roch
ester, if convicted of the offences charged,
that no proof would be offered that he had so
offended. But when the proof is offered,
and the sly fox ia unearthed, he pleads guilty
—coward-like, deserts his ground, and braves
public opinion by justifying hia atrocious sen
timent*.
Friday P. M. he devoted to a tirade of
abuse against Henry Clay, chiefly. But a
thousand Thompsons, and ten legions of fal
len angels like unto him, and all the “shapes
hot from Tartarus,” in the plastic monld of s
modern Abolitionist can never shtke the love
of “gallant Harry of the West,” that is
deeply planted in the heaits of his country
men. He may rave and rant, and invoke the
demons of the pit to kis aid, but he cannot
move the firmly seated love of this eminent
statesman, nor change the old rallying cry
and the enthusiastic ahout of “Here's to you
Harry Clay.” The audience stood his
Billingsgate “like good fellows,” but only
fssble cheers from a few insane sympathizers,
responded to his slander.
With the lesser lights in this elan we have
nothing te do. They have learned, however,
that the thronged houses were no tribute to
them, for with the dying away of Thompson’s
*oice, the audience usually slipped out to
breathe the pure air. And when the “regular
army” gathered about their council fire, there
were hardly enough present to keep each
Other In Countenance. Wm suppose these
fanatics “had a good lima” in Rochester
doubtless they departed with malevolence sod
bitterness enough in their hearts to last tbe
residue of the season. We cordially rejoice
in their disappointment at not being “mob
bed,” and bope they will come again and pass
some more resolutions.
But the “pestilence that waatath at noon
day” has passed. Tbe aky has cleared up,
and a puier air has diasi paled the miasma that
waa doing i's work. Some of us took the
disease the “natural way”—others by “in
oculation.” However, all are satisfied, and
they wont be williog to introduce tbe virus
into tbeir systems again. These pseudo
“friends of the slave” are his worst enemies
and had he no better friends, we might in
deed despair of him and of the Republic.
Baseness and Mendacity.
We ask the attention of all candid readers
to the following facts:
When it was announced that George
Thompson, Esq., bad been invited to oar
city for the purpose of lecturing upon Reform
in Great Britain and Brittab India, the Daily
Advertiser aaaailed him in the most oppro
brious tsrms, and to excite the prejudices and
hostility of the public, published what pur
ported to be extracts from a speech made at
Springfield. It asserted that Mr. Thompson
had "violated the rights of hospitality" and
"vilified and abased our country as a whole."
Knowing that these pretended extracts origi
nated whh l the Springfield Rebubticen, the
instigators connected with which got up the
mob that haa eternally disgraced that town,
we took it for granted that the men who
would get op mobs were probebly liars, nod
such proves to be substantially the fact.
The Advertiser publishes a letter from
"Sam Bowfot k Sew’ the Springfield mobo*
cr»t», which exhibit* the spirit of the wit
mmm by low abuse—b«»rrse “Sam Bowies
A Son” do eot testify to use of iho words
Jooied, bat that somebody whoso name they
not give told them so! Now in opposi
tion to the assertion of this Mr. Nobody wo
have the frank and manly explanation of Mr.
Thompson himself, mads from ths platform
of Corinthian Hall on Thnraday aftsroooa.
Bnt such is the malignity and nn/ainea* of
tbs Advertiser, that it garhlso and falsifies
this explanation. Mr. Thompson did sot
admit that, he never used ths language moo
ted—but said that when speaking of the Fu
gitive Slavs Lew—he did aay that “for tbs
fugitive slave there was no apet of earth that
was not more sacred to liberty then America.”
This was the seothnent, which he declared
to be “just sad trua,” and who will have the
hardihood to deny it?
But gaibling the explanation and omitting
the most essential part, the eallumniaior of
the Advortiasr endeavor* to made out its cue.
But he cannot thus impose upon the good
sense of the citizens of Rochester. He
charged that Mr. Thompson bad attacked the
“Government and Constitution of this coun
try— had slandered our Country as a whole—
and had been guilty of offences against hos
pitality.
Mr. Thompson declared himeelf to be a
friend of this country and people, and an ad
mirer of all its institutions, save one —Slavery
—sad promised to leave the oountry if any
ef the vile chargee against him could be aub
•taniated. And now this contemptible Ad
vertiaer libeller calls upon all “true demo
crats!” to “spurn out” Mr. Thompson from
our city ana coantry," and (Dr wnat? why,
for believing what the Advertiws admit* to
be true, that “Slavery is a great social, moral
and political evil”—and for saying that for
the safety of a fogitiyj slave “is no spot on
oarth that is not more sacred than Republican
America.” That such ia the fact, recent
acei.ee in New York and Philadelphia bears
sad witness. Those who have heard Mr.
Thompson in this can testify that nought has
been said by hiaa against our country, its
Constitution or its Goverenment. On the
contrary, he has uniformly expressed love
and admiration for all, with the exception of
slavery and ita accompaniments, Color
phobia, and the Fugitive slave Law—That
after columns of vituperation and abuse of a
stranger visiting our eity the Advertiser
should resort to a garbled misrepresentation
of Mr. Thompson's remarks, ia a depth of
meanness to which no man but Thomas H.
Hyatt could descend.— Roch. Herald.
Anti-Colonization.
We have been respectfully requested to
publish the following proceedings, and do so
because we are willing to give every one a
hearing, whatever may be our own opinions.
Some of these resolutions certainly contain
bold and extraordinary avowals, which must
depend entirely on their own merits for ap*
proval.— (Jin. ISonjpartiL
Pursuant to public notiee, a very large and
respectable meeting of the colored citizens of
ihis city was holden on the evening of the
91st of March, in the Union Baptist church
for the purpose of making a demonstration of
sentiment in reference to African Coloniza
tion.
On motion, Wm. Dames was chosen Presi
dent, and Rev. W. Shelton, Wm. D. Brawn
and Wm. Nelson, Vice Presidents. Mr.
Thomas Ball and P. Toliver, as Sectelaries.
The President briefly stated the object of the
call, whereupon a committee of five were ap
pointed lo bring in business for the considera
tion of the meeting, viz: Jehu I. Gains, 1.
G. Ball, Wra. Casey, James Leach, and
John Hatfield. The throne ofGrace was ad
dressed by Rev. C. Ysn Yancy. The com
mittee retired and brought in the following
Report, which was unanimously adopted, but
one voting in the negative.
Whereas, Some fifteen or sixteen indi
viduals met in a society capacity at P.
Walker’s barber ahop and adopted a pream
ble and reeolutiona in favor of African Colo
nization—said preamble and resolutions pub
lished in the “Daily Enquirer” of March Ith,
which was headed “Negro Emigration
And whereas the sentiments therein contained
do not reflect the opinion of one-fiftieth part
of the colored people of Cmoinnati, there
fore—
Resolved, That we, the colored citizens of
this city, in public meeting assembled, enter
out protest against the whole scheme of Afri
can colonization.
Resolved, That said preamble which de
clared “that with all the exertions on our
part, and the assistance of those friendly to
our elevstion we mutt despair of ever seeing
the prejudice manifested against our people
done away in the United States for centuries
yet to come,” —is a mere fallacy and totally
uncalled for at this juncture.
Resolved, That the first and second resolu
tions, which affirm that the colored native
born American “can never expect to enjoy a
political equality” with the Anglo-American
race, is another gross error, contradicted by
the history of the times and the progressive
spirit of the age.
Resolved, That we are more’ than ever
convinced of the heartless nature of the Ame
rican Colonization Society, inasmuch as it
only purposes in the language of its great
founder, Henry Clay, not to interfere with
the “peculiar institution,” but to remove “the
free people of color in these United States to
Africa.
Resolved, That the slaveholders of the
South and their Northern allies need give
themselves no uneasiness about the “Fine
Negroes” of Ctucinusti going to Liberia,
but reserve the equilibrium of their temper
for the preservation of their health, for io
reality they have no such an idea.
Resolved, That this is our home, this the
spot where our fathers, mothers, sisters and
brothers have died. Hera are oar kinsmen
in chains, and while ooe rattles upon their
limbs, er clanks upon their neck, we will
never voluntarily'leave the laud of our birth,
but contend for our rights in the church and
out of the church, in the State and out of the
State, until the stars and stripes (shall float
over the head of none but the free.
Resolved, That the proceedings of this
meeting be published in the several city pa
pen.
TREMENDOUS EXCITEMENT lIR
NEW BEDFORD! r
Colored Population Wide Awake!
New Bcoford, Match 16,
o’clock, P. M.
Our city haa baen in the moat intenaa state
of excitement ever since half-past four u’eleck
this morning, in consequence of the arrival
hart about that time of two gentlemen from
Boston, who left that city about midnight,
making the journey (00 miles) in four end a
half heura—thirty milas by horse and thirty
by railroad—bringing the intelligence that a
steamer with 100 armed men and the Deputy
U. S. Marshal left Charlestown Navy Yard
on Saturday evening, bound for|thia or soma
other port ia the vicinity, with the avowed in
tention of claiming Fugitive Slaves,
The information was oommuaicated to some
of the principal men of the place, at_tbe ear
liest moment.
The bell on Liberty Hall was immediately
tolled and continued to sound the alarm for
about one hour. The people turned out to
aee what was tha matter—tha news was soon
upoo every tongue. A large concourse of
people aaaeaabled at Liberty HaiUand resolved
upon future count. Between six and seven
hundred colored citizens many of whom are
fugitives am hen, and an determined to
Stand by one Another and live or die together.
The colored citizens abandoned their separate
places of worship and assembled in a body at
liberty Hall; this waa done at the recom
mendation of sevatal of our moat wealthy and
influential ettmana- At the opening of the
meeting ia the forenoon, Rodney French
Esq., announced, that, what the cittaana ef
New Bedford had beee ia great fear ef for
a*me time past, had now almost become a
fgot -.aoloogai ago than yesterday, said be, a
U. S. Deputy Marshal for New Bedford re
eeived Me appointment to Boston, ha pur.
ebaaad it by a pledge that he could and would
r attest a fugitive slave in this city, if it coat
bin hie life.
Mr. French told the audience ibe n„w*
about the steamer; ibe excitement wae very
i great. The impraaeton bare ie that the
•learner ia intended to remain a the outer
bay, to be used by tbe new Depety Marshal,
who ia a pilot, ia a sort of priaon ship, there
be»g no other means of boldiag a prisoner.
The name of the new officer aa Bill Raeeell
said to be a tool of any desperate work. The
hotels and reading rooms have been visited by
heed reds doling the day, who are anxious to
learn something of the partienlan.
All good’ oilmens, without reference to
party, declares that a fugitive ought not and
never can be taken from this place. The new
Deputy finds it difficult to obtain the neces-
Mry bonds required by law before he can hold
the office; nevertheless be ia appoirted. He
dose not deny that the steamer waa intended
for this port, but ia ashamed to own that he
has received tbe appointment.
Sach a aevare storm has been raging all
day, that it would be impossible for the
steamer to have arrived up to the dosing of
our despatch.
A monster meeting of the citizens ie talked
of for this evening, notwithstanding the rain.
Commonwealth.
Tbi Purchase or Nbw Mexico.— I Th
Hon. Truman Smith, in his speech in the
National Senate on the Bth inst., procured
faU and official statistics to show the terri
tories of New Mextvo m 4 California, cost
the Union $194,038,353 65J in the expenses
of the war and the indemnity paid for the
territory acquired. Besides which, we have
the following statistics of the loss of human
life in the wax:—The number of deaths
returned by the officer of the army is 19,788;
4,749 were discharged for disability, of whom
at least half have died, say 3,874 73,260,
men were mustered into service during the
war, and 10,573 were muttered out; of the
residue, amounting to 93,867 90,079 were
returned as dead, discharged or deserted, and
the difference, 9,615, are supposed to be
dead of those mustered out of service, it is
estimated that 10 per cent, or 5,514 have
since died thus raaking,in the Aggregate, a
low of 95,481 lives through this war. Mr.
Smith rightly asks whether, with this ex
penditure of life and treasure, the U. Statee
have not purchased New Mexico, and whe
ther we are to be obliged to purchase it a
second time.— CSn. Nonpareil.
ID* A negro woman was relating her ex
perience to a gaping ‘eongiegation of color;
among other things, said she had been to
heaven. One of the servants asked her,
“Sister, you see any black folks in heaven
‘Ob! get out —’apoee I go in de kitchen
when 1 was dar V
North Star Fair.
Thi North Star Fair Association
will hold their Annual Fair for the North
Star newspaper during Anniversary week in
May next.
All who are deairous of sustaining that
paper are respectfully solicited to contribute.
The Association consider it an efficient Anti-
Slavery agency—one which airne a death
blow at the foul system of slavery and now
is thß time its power should be felt. Slavery
is ofpresaing us on every aide, tod we must
be prepared for battle. Our weapon is
Truth, and tbe North Star is well calculated
to wield it. It can and will combat the
enemy on every aide, and therefore ought to
be sustained. Then let ua sustain it. The
ladies of this Association ate delexmiued to
exert their Influence in ita behalf.
Donations, either in money or goods, will
be thankfully received, and may be forwarded
to the Directress or Secretary.
EMELINE BASTIEN,
Churchville, March’6th, 1861.
jtlisctllaneous.
JENNY LIND AT HAY ANA.
The following interesting account of
Jenny Lind’s first concert at Havana,
we find in the correspondence of the
N. Y. Tribune: I
The immense Tacon Theatre, quite
the finest 1 ever saw, was literally
crowded to overflowing, every seat
and standing place being occupied, and
the audience numbering probably full
five thousand persons, including the
Captain General and his family, and
the nobility of the city. Perhaps some
three hundred of these auditors had
heard Jenny before, and therefore knew
what was coming; the rest were bro’t
there out of curiosity, or led by sheer
malice to attend and put her down.—
First came the overture to Massanielo,
admirably played by the orchestra of
the Opera, and several professors from
New York, who travelled with Jenny
Lind, led by Burke Bendict, Con
ductor. The overture was tolerably
received. Then followed an Aria by
Signor Belletti, which was coldly re
ceived. The next announcement in
the bill was a Cavatina from the Opera
of Somnambula, by Jenny Lind.
This lady soon appeared, lad on by
Signor Belleti. Some two or three
hundred persons clapped their hands at.
her appearance, but this token of ap
probation was instantly and perempto
rily silenced by at least four thousand
five hundred, cold, calculating, decided
and palpable hisses. Thus, having set
tled the matter that there should be no
forestalling—of public opinion, that if
applause was given to Jenny Lind in
that house, it should be most incontest
ibly and incontrovertibly earned.—
I have heard the Swedish Nightingale
often in Europe as well as America,
and have ever noticed a distinct titmu
lousness attending her first appearance
in any city. Indeed, this feeling yras
plainly manifested in her countenance
as she neared the footlights, but when
she witnessed the kind of reception
that had been ia store for her, so dif
ferent from anything she had reason to
expect, (for I am told she never reads
the papers, nor permits persons to tell
her what the public think of her musi
cal talents,) and so different from any
she had ever received before,
her countenance changed in an instant
to a haughty self-possession, her eye
involuntarily flashed a ray of defiance,
and her form becoming instantaneously
erect, and apparently immovable as a
statue, She stood there perfectly calm
and beautiful, evidently satisfied be
yond measure that she now had an
ordeal to pass and a victory to gain
worthy of her powers, and as evidently
feeling ns perfectly conecious of the
heightb, depth, length and breadth of
these powers. In a moment, her eye
scanned the immense audience, the
music began, and then followed—how
can I dare attempt to describe ft ?—I
will not —such heavenly strains an I
verily believe mortal never breathed
except Jenny Lind, and mortal never
heard except from her lips. Some of
the oldest Castilians kept a frown upon
their brows and a curling sneer upon
their lips—their ladies, however, and
most of the audience began to,look
surprised; the gushing melody flowed
on, increasing in beauty and glory;
nearly all kept their teeth clenched,
apd their lips closed, evidently deter
mined to resist to the last. The tor
rent flowed on faster and faster, the
lark flew higher and higher, the melody
grew richer and richer—still every Up
was compressed. By and by, a* the
rich notes came dashing in rivers upon
our enraptured ears, one poor critic
involuntarily loudly whispered a bra
vo.’’ This bursting of the soul was
instantly and simultaneously hissed
down—the stream of harmony rolled
on till at the close it outdo a clean
sweep of every obstacle, and carried
alt before it. Not a vestige of opposi
tion remained; bat such a tremendous
shout of applause as went up was nev
er before beard.
The tiiumpb was most complete;.and
how was Jenny Lind affected? -She
who, h few minutes previous, stood like
g pillar of adamant, before cold criti*
cism and malice prepense, now trembled
like a reed in the wind before the storm
of enthusiasm which her own simple
notea bad produced. Tremblingly,
■lowly, and bowing her face almost to
the ground, she withdrew—the roar of
applause and victory increased; end
core! encore!! encore!!!*’ came from
every lip. She again appeared, an*
curtesying low, again withdrew: but
again, again and again did they call
her forth, and at every appearance the
thunders of applause rang louder and
louder. Thus five times was Jenny
Lind called out to receive their unani
mous and deafening plaudits.
Some three years since, the liberty
duett in J Puritani* was sung and en
cored so many times on one night, that
the doors of the theatre were locked,
and platoons of soldiers marched in,
and put down the enthusiasm of the
audience at the point of the bayonet!
Soon after that event, a law was passed
prohibiting a song from being repeated
on an encore, without a special permit
from the “President," who holds his
appointment from Queen Isabella, and
whose business it is ever to be present
at public representations, and, with the
printed bill before him, see that it is
carried out and performed to the letter.
Since that law was enacted, the Presi
dent has never deviated a single time;
and therefore never even once has there
been a song repeated on an encore.
"''A solo on the violin by Burke, al
though truly excellent, was barely tol
erated. Then followed the duett from
Rossini’s Opera, II Turco in Italia,"
by Jenny Lind and Sig. Belletti. Here
Bdletti began to creep into favor, and
some of his finest passages elicited
many loud bravos" and louder plau
dits from the hands of the audience,
while Jenny gained more ard more
upon her auditors, who appeared en
chanted by her powers. They were
both called four times before the cur
tain, and thus terminated the first part
of the programme.
Twenty minutes elapsed, during
which the ladies chattered like—l had
almost said moneys—while the men
withdrew into the open court, to smoke
a cigar, and give loose to their aston
ishment in the strongest terms which
the Spanish language can command to
express admiration and surprise.
The overture to the Black Domino
opened the second part, after which
Jenny Lind came forward to sing
“Casta Diva." This cavatina was the
first which passed the lips of Jenny
Lind at her debut in Castle Garden,
New York, and now it was to be sub
mitted to a much more musical and
critical audience. There sat Tedesco
in the Palco adjoining that of Signor
Marti. Still further on was a box in
which were Bosio, Steffanoni, Salvi,
Badiali, Colleti, and Bettui. Botesini
and several other artists sat sat in an
opposite box, and all seemed to think
that Jenny Lind was venturing on dan
gerous ground.
Jenny again assumed the peculiar
attitude of modest defiance which char
acterized her first appearance, and the
music commenced. Before two min
utes had passed by, Jenny Lind, who
was never in better voice, and who
certainly never sang Casta Diva"
better, had charmed her auditors once
again; and as she proceeded, the
“bravos" came so thiek and fast, that
sometimes beautiful passages were al
most lost, and when she arrived at the
close, it seemed literally as if the house
would be torn down by the delighted
multitude. Boqueta covered the stage,
and the applause was truly deafening.
Jenny attempted to leave the stage, but
the audience would not permit .this, for
every step which she retreated back
ward, drew forth a thousand encores.
There stood Jenny Lind for two full
minutes, fixed as a statue, and stooping
almost to the stage, amidst the most
overwhelming thunders of applause that
can well be imagined.
But why, oh Habaneros, will you
still cry “encore," when you know an
“encore" is not allowed? No matter!
The Captain General and his family
appear as much enchanted as the rest,
and the stately President" in a rap
ture of delight whispers something in
the ear of a page, who instantly leaves
bis box. In a few minutee word is
passed to Jenny Lind that the President
will with pleasure permit her to repeat
Casta Diva!" The orchestra again
commences the air, and the audience
discover what they have achieved.—
Then did Jenny Lind, for the first time
in her life, repeat the cavatina of
“Casta Diva" on an encore. And who
#ere the roost enthusiastic in their
plaudits and their demands for this rep
etition Every prominent artist in the
Italian Opera Troupe! Tedesco clap
ped her hands till she was red in the
face; Bosio was no less enthusiastic,
and all the others joined most heartily
or: at all events roost loudly in the ap
plause.
I need not go further. The Flute
song and the £cho song followed, and
were repeated by permission of the
President; and when the curtain fell,
after calling out the fair cantatrice six
times, the most delighted audience that
I ever saw, reluctantly withdrew. The
proceeds of this concert are estimated
at some $17,090.
[From tiw National Era.]
LETTER FROM GRACE GREEN
WOOD.
Washington, March 3, 1851.
Dear W— I must give you
but a brief and hurried letter on this
last day of the session. 1 am to go up
to the Capitol at an earlier hour than
usual, and my morning has been sadly
interrupted.
I am feeling somewhat depressed
to-day, I must confess. My winter in
Washington has been one of great en
joyment, and I have sincere regret in
parting from so many whose society
has given me both pleasure and profit.
During the past two months we have
been having at Dr. B——’s, on Satur
day evenings, social, informal parties
—Free Soil soiree*—gatherings to
gether of the elect for counsel, “aid,
and comfort." On Saturday night
last, these pleasant reunions came to
an end, amid general and earnest ex
pressions of regret.
Among those aaosi faithful in attend
ance at these agreeable, but rather ex
clusive, soirees was Mr. Root of Ohio,
w|o will not, I am sorry to say, return
tofWashington next session. He has
added much to the life and gayity of
I our circle. A greet lever end provoker
i of laughter—an incorrigible wag, he ie
i yet, aa you doubtless well know, e
true, fearless, and earnest nan. He
has played his part ftuthiuUy since he
f has been here, and under circumstances
1 well calculated to test his temper and
i capacity. With all his honor, mirth*
fulness, and good nature, be is not an
t antagonist to be lightly estimated, nor
I one with whom bis opponents are par
b ticularly anxious to engage. Though
1 not a fierce hand-to-hand gladiator, he
r is a skilful matador, shaking his red
mantle as if in sport, hut giving keen,
quick, effective strokes under it.
r Perhaps, the one in our circle most
honored and beloved is Mr. Giddings
t of Ohio. A large and fsarlsss spirit
has in him a fitting embodiment. He
is, I think, the most powerfully built
i man in the house—tall, full-chested,
f broad-shouldered, a sort of political
1 Ajax, full of energy and endurance,
I while his happy, genial countenance
t shows that the generous feelings of his
i early manhood are yet alive and fresh
1 —he is, thank Heaven, good for many
t years more of noble action. Mr. Gid
dings talks of going to the World’s
i Fair. I hope he will not fail to forward
himself, for we could hardly send a
finer specimen of American manhood,
i Mr. DurKee of Wisconsin is one of
j the friends we most prize. He pos
sesses a most liberal and benevolent
spirit, warm, social feelings, and pure,
reformatory principles. He has the
i most abiding, unfailing, happy faith in
the speedy triumph ofthe right—in the
t speedy coming of that promised, pray-
I ed-for, long-tarrying “good time.”
I Why, he actually believes in the Mil
lennium!—that the final redemption of
the human mind from error, the human
s heart from crime, of human lives from
wrong and suffering, is not a lying
t hope, a divine mockery; that liberty
and justice are not cold abstractions,
t beautiful ideals, but God's own reali
ties, the priceless heritage of his cbild
ren, whose rights He himself shall
I vindicate at last.
i Mr. Mann and Mr. Allen of Massa
i chueetts, Mr. Julian of Indiana, Mr.
Doty of Wisconsin, Mr. Wiknot of
i Pennsylvania, Mr. Gott and Preston
King of New York, have been among
our most welcome visiters—and a fine
set of honest, earnest, and sensible
men they are, with clear heads and
kindly hearts, quck impulses, but firm
i principles.
Governor Cleveland of Connecticut
frequently looked in upon us. He is a
very agreeable, but an ambitious man,
I I fear—for not content, as many a
i legislator would be, with the reputation
of being one of the handsomest men in
i Congress—he aspires to win a still
higher fame by the advocacy of senti
i ments just and noble, to-day unpopular,
i but having within themselves the germs
of future honor. This nuturing a
young century plant is not such egre
gious folly after all. True you may
never see its blossoming, but eye a
which caught their brightness from
i yours may grow brighter as they gaze
on it in the days to come,
i I left my letter rather abruptly yes
terday, and went up to the Capitol. I
was so fortunate as to be present in
the House at the passage of the reso
lution for the aid of Kossuth. It watt
really beautiful and cheering to witness
the ready and almost unanimous action
of our Representatives upon this ques
tion. On the last day of the session,
when overwhelmed with business of
the most pressing importance, they
yet turned aside in the spirit of a
chivalrous fraternity, to give counte
nance and assistance to Hungary’s un
fortunate patriot and his brave asso
ciates. All honor to them for their
generous impulses—their magnanimity
—for their sympathy with the fallen—
for their recognition of the universal
brotherhood of freemen. I never felt
so proud of my country as at the mo
ment when that resolution passed. I
turned an exulting look upon the face
of an English friend who stood at my
side, and he, by his sympathy, added
not a little to the patriotic glorying
which swelled my heart. But “pride
must have a fall” is an old saying, and
it soon proved itself in a most melan
choly and mortifying manner.
In the early part of the evening
session, in the House, there was, as
you will have seen, a personal ren
counter between Mr. Stanly and Mr.
Clingman, the wrong and disgrace of
which would seem to rest upon the
shoulders of the latter gentleman
He began an altercation with Mr. Stan
ly, calling him opprobrious names, and
followed them with a blow. Though
of a passionate nature, and of a keen,
sarcastic temper, Mr. Stanly is said to
have been wonderfully calm and for-
bearing in his language toward bis bit
ter and violent antagonist. Of course,
there will be a meeting. Perhaps, as
Mr. Clingman threatened, not se blood
less an one as the late affair between
Messrs. Stanly and Inge. Well, I
must »aj f tliat 1 hope, if Mr ike
other must fall, it will not be he who
has suffered the insult and the wrong.
Mr. Stanly is one of the most fearless,
independent, and liberal of the South
ern members, beside being an able
and spirited speaker, and a finished
gentleman. The country could sooner
spare the entire squad of reckless and
belligerent legislators, who seek to
make of the floor of Congress an arena
for the bully, who, wanting equally the
controlling force of high intellect and
the weight of moral principle, would
settle the affairs of the nation by the
pistol, the bowie-knife, or a chivalrous
resort to fisticuffs.
I deeply regretted that Mr. Stanly
should accept a challenge—l shall the
more deeply regret his sending one.
He should never irore give the weight
of his example tothe horrible barbari
ty, the infernal ity of duelling. He can
not himself in his own deepest heart,
approve of the practice, and 1 believe
that he is mistaken, if he thinks that
public opinion, even in the South, re
quires him to prove his animal courage
by murdering, or being murdered.
That a great and happy change of
sentiment in regard to this question is
taking place in the Southern States,
has been well proved by Major Bor
land, one of the present Senators from
Arkansas. Previous to his election to
the Senate, and in the midst of a vio
lent political excitement, he was gross
ly insulted, and called out by a quarrel- i
•one opponent. Having been, in early
life, engaged in duel, when be
aeverely wounded hie antagonist, he
had become convinced of the evil, sin,
and folly of the practice, and now had
the moral courage to refuse a chal
lenge, though forced upon him in a
moat insulting and irritating manner.
He laid the matter before the peepis
of his State in a noble and manly let
ter, and to the honor of that people be
it said, that the refusal of the soldier to
prove his courage by fighting a duel,
insured, instead of defeating the elec
tion of the Senator. A conauraation
devoutly to be thankful for—not only
as the triumph of a moral principle, but
also because it has given to the Senate
a man of fine ability and generous
spirit. True to the interests of his
section of the country, and I doubt not,
to his own convictions, he is not
illiberal —is never arrogant iu tone, un
fair, or discourteous in debate.
The Senate and House have be-n
in session all night. In my
may attempt a sketch of legislation by
gas-light, or by the ghastly light of
the early morning. Do pardon the
haste in which I have written. I am
keeping the press open. I have not
locked back over a line, but have been
obliged to dash off a page at a time
and let the devil Uk« it—thua kindly
aaticipating the fervent wish of some of
my readers. Youts,
Grace Grbnwood.
BARBAROUS OUTRAGE.

i A few weeks since an individual in
Ghent, Carroll county, Ky., purchased
three negroes—a mother and her two
children—one of the latter, a girl some
eight or nine years of age, being an
f idiot. In consideration of his taking
i the idiot child off the hands of the for
i mer owner, he got the mother and the
other child at a very low price.
r The child was given up into the
hands of an old negro woman, in a
cabin some distance from the owner's
residence, to be taken care of. Hav
-1 ing occasion, however, for the service
of the woman about his premises, the
idiot was left in the cabin, binding it
a great burdeu, he offered to give any
f one who would take it a hundred dollars,
i This offer was promptly accepted by
a man who was standing by, who, in
turn offered fifty dollars to any one who
i would take it from him. The offer
I was acceded to by a third person, who
i immediately offered twenty-five dollars
to any one to take it on the conditions
l on which he had done. A customer
l was not long wanting"—the bargain was
struck, and the twenty-five dollars paid
l The fellow into whose hands the
i idiot last fell, in company with another,
i proceeded to the cabin, some two miles
1 distant, on a cold frosty morning, took
ithe child out almost naked and bare
footed, and drove it before them almost
i the whole distance —her feet having
i been cut by the hard, frosty ground.
The monsters took the child to a flat
or store boat, lying up there, and for a
i while amused themselves by placing
her on a hot stove, with her bare feet,
i burning them most horribly, and ap
plying them to different parts of her
body. The owner of the boat coming,
in, ordered the fellows to leave his
premises, which they did.
One of the rascals then procured a
skiff, put the child into it and proceeded
down the river. He shortly after re
turned without the child; and upon
being asked what he had done with it,
refused to give any satisfaction. A flat
boat coming along in the course of a
few hours, he jumped into it, and has
not since been heard of. The child
was doubtless drowned, or left upon the
bank of the river to die.
The affair has created considerable
feeling among the community in which
it took place, and the individual who
purchased the family is greatly dis
tressed. He doubtless offered and paid
the #lOO in good faith, believing it
would be amply sufficient compensation
for the trouble of taking care of the
idioc. He has offered a reward for the
recovery of the child. It is to be hoped
that the villains concerned in torturing
and making away with the idiot will be
arrested and severely punished.
P. S. —Since writing the above, we
find a paragraph in the Madison Ban
ner, in which it is said that a fellow
named Ross, Alias Crawford, has been
arrested in Madison, supposed to be
the scoundrel who took the skiff. He
is now in jail in that city.— New Albany
(la.) Ledger, Jan. 30.
A Wolf Story.—The following is
aa extract of a letter from Col. W. H.
Steeman, an officor of the British army
in ladia:
Court of Lucknow, Hindoostan,
India, Oct. 3, 1850.—1 must now tell
you about a poor boy, who was found
in a wolfs den, with a wolf and three
whelps. When dug into by some of
my troopers, they all bolted together,
and the boy ran so fast on all fours,
that he outstripped the whelps, and was
with difficulty taken by a mounted
trooper. The mother of the whelp*
had carried him off from his parents
some years before, and brought him up
as her own offspring in her den. I
have more instances of the same kind,
and had what they call' a wild man of
the woods’ brought tome yesterday,
sent by the King of Oude. He was
caught twenty-five years ago m a jun
gle in the vyoods, when he was about
eighteen years of age. He had been
brought up by a wolf, but she died, and
be was taken in a starving state by a
hermit, who weaned him from eating
raw flesh. One of the king’s soldiers
got him from the hermit, and presented
him to the king, by whom, and by bis
successors, he has ever since been
taken care of. It was many year* be
fore be could be made to wear clothing,
and even now he dislikes the society of
men. He speaks, but only in reply to
questions, and then it is with difficulty
understood.*
Thb Puritans” were called such
ia sheer contempt. What jeers and
flouts lay in the sarcasm, as it flashed
frooi the lips of witty Cavaliers! But
they who bore it made it noble. It has
rung over Europe, like a trumpet-blast
of Freedom. It has been a watch
word of honor for centuries. Men an
proud of it now, who would have flung
it with contempt at the Roundheads in
their day. ,r The Abolitionists** will
hot wait ages for their recompense of
honor, if they be true U> Humanity and
to Truth ,
