the prejudice of caste-pro
scribed races of spain and
france.
“among all the injuries done by i
man to man, none has been so fruitful j
of lasting evil, as the antipathy of
castes, in whatever form—whether re
presenting the hateful distinctions of fa
naticism and superstition, or the op
pressive domination of a conqueror, oy
the vulgar insolence of mere diversity]
of race and color.”— edinburgh rev. j
the paragraph above closes an in
teresting article in the edinburgh re
view of last april, on the proscribed
races of france and spain,” a history
of whom, by m. michel, has lately been
issued in paris.
what is the ground of the popular
prejudice in this country against the
colored people? j 1 difference of race?
then,why is nat a similar prejudice ob
servable between the celts aud anglo-
saxons among usr why does not
the public generally regard the indians
with the same antipathy as the af
ricans?
is it color? the educated indian,
or the well-hrecf chinaman, is admitted
to the social circle, without encounter
ing any sentiment of aversion; and in
england and europe the caucasian
race regards the m in of african de
scent, other things being equal, with
the same favor as one of their own
race.
is it anything in the physical con
formation? the negro, however well
favored, whatever the regularity of his
featares, or fairness of his complexion,
is a proscribed man, while absolute ug
liness and malformation disqualify no
white man for association on equal
terms with his brethren.
the prejudice cannot be a law oi
human nature; else were it universal
—but it is a matter of fact, that it is
confined to a very small proportion ol
the caucasian race—our trans-atlantic
brethren do not sympathize with us in
this fealing.
the history of the proscribed races
in spain and france—races not yet
quite extinct—is full of instruction to
those who would philosophize correctly
on tho prejudices to which man is lia
ble. these races inhabited the v'ild
districts in the west and southwest ol
france, extending from britanny and
maine, through poitou, guienne, gas
cony, beam, and the basque provin
ces, to navurr£ and some ol the neigh
boring districts of spain on the other
side of the pyrenees; and, from time
immemorial, were called ihe cagots,
capots, jlgals, or gahcts. iu the mid
dle ages they were quite numerous, but
now ure rarely met with. they were
white people, and distinguished in noth-*
ing from their neighbor*, except, it is
said, by the absence of the lobe of the
tar. sane of them were wealthy;
some educated and, ns it regards moral j
character, they were not below the
general standard. and yet they were
the proscribed subjects of a most inhu
man prejudice, precisely in kind like
that which weighs d..wn the colored
raco in this country, though more in
tense in degree. their testimony was
inhibited in courts sf justice. they i
had no part or lot in the government.—
their children were excluded from the
school* where other children were
taught. a man or w .man who married
one of them, became an outcast. gen
erally, they were not even favored with
t ie privilege of being taxed and, when j
at moma*, (basse* pyrenees) “a tax
filled rancou was levied on all cagots t
the north star
of the commune, to mark ihe contempt
j in which they were held, the collectoi
was accompanied with a dog, to which
each c'ag»k was obliged to give a piece
of bread." in the towns, particular
quarters were assigned them, and in
1 coonfry villages, they lived in separate
hamlets. sometimes the people were
forbidden to employ them as labors.—
bv the municipal regulations of one
place, they could not enter its limits
i without a badge of red cloth, to indi
i cate their degradation; and if they met
one of the town’s people, they were
obliged to stand on one side of the road
till he passed. they were forbidden to
touch the vessels out of which people
drank, or to take water out of the pub
lic well. (in this place, colored people
are prohibited from entering the public
grounds about the capitol, unless of
necessary businsss.) in the earlier
j part of the seventeenth century, the in
habitants of oleran complained, as oi
an intolerable nuisance, trial some ca
gots of that place had presumed to
keep pigeons, which, leaving their
homes in search of food, mixed with the
pigeons of their neighbors;, and at an
other place, a cagot was punished for
having been found fishing with a line in
the river. (a slave boy in georgetown,
ij. c., who should be found hying a
kite, would be liable to a fine of two
dollars, and, in default of payment, to
whipping by the mayor, at liis discre
tion.) they were forbidden to enter
any tavern. (our free people of color
are forbidden to keep taverns of any
kind.)
in the churches, however, the preju
dice was most fearfully manifested.—
the following extract from the edin
burgh review will remind one of the
negro pew sand cemeteries of this coun
try, only there is nothing in the bitter
ness, the antipathy against colored peo
ple, as shown iri our churches, to equal
the fiendish cruelty oi* the pious people
of france and spain, inflicted on this
unfortunate while race.
in some places they seem to have
had at a remote period churches or
j chapels of their own—at least the ruins
or traces of small ecclesiastical build
ings are found, which popular tradition
ascribes to them. in most of the
churches of the west and southwest ol
france, there is a small entrance door, i
(now often walled up) called the ca
got’s door, quite distiuct from the prin-'
cipal entrance: there is also a division 1
of the church at some distance from the
portion ofitlie church occupied by the
congregation, which is understood to i
have been set apart for the cagots, and
a sin ill holy-water basin for their se- j
parate use, the latter generally bearing j*
traces of ancient sculpture. the street
of the cagots, a narrow, dirty lane,
generally led to the little door of the!
church. the cagots, who were looked 1
upon, even by the church, as an ac
cursed race, were expressly forbidden
to enter by the same as the rest ol i
the congregation, or to introduce them-!
selves into any other pait of the chmvh
than that set aside tor them, or to ap
proach the large holy-water basin, in
many f places, as at luccarre, in the j
arondissem'*nt of pau, and at claracq, j
in the canton of theze, (in the depart-
inent of the pyreuees,) where the ca
gots were adihitted to partake in the
holy sacraments, they were still kept
apart from other people, and the con
secrated bread was reached to them at
the end of a rod or cleft stick. no one
but a cagot would enter the church by
the cagot’s door, or even pass along
the streets they inhabited. at ossuq.
in the department of the hautes py
renees, so late as the year 1783, a
cagot having ventured to dip his band
into the larger holy-water basin, nar
rowly escaped becoming a victim to
popular fury; and it is recorded that,
in the department of the landez ol
bardeaux, at the beginning of the reign
of louis xvi., a rich cagot of that
country (for they were not always
poor) having been observed to use the
holy-water basin of the inhabitants of
the place at three different times, an
old soldier went with his sabre to watch
one sunday, at the church d >or, and,
as the cagot was again preparing to vio
late the law by which his whole race
was proscribed, the soldier cut off his
hand, which was immediately picked up
and nailed to the church door, as a
warning to prevent future offences of
the same description. on the other
hand, an old woman of sierre castet,
in the canton of morlaas, (hautes py
renees) informed m. michel, that she
remembered having, when a chljid, been
frequently beaten by her mother for
putting her hand into the holy-water
basin of tue cagots. it is still related
at larroque, in the same department,
as an atr »cious act of revenge against
the cure, that a man once introduced
gravel into the 1 >ck of the cure’s door,
so that he was obliged to pass into the
church through the door of the cagots.
at argelos, where this door happens
not to have been walled up, as is so
often the case, the aversion to the ca
gots continues so strong among ihe in
habitants, that rather than pass through
it, they make a circuit of above twenty
yards, and descend into the churchyard
by a short ladder, although the way
of the cagots’ is at the same time more
direct, and on a level with the church
yard. at lurbe, where, as we hav*
said, the cagots were numerous, it was
not easy to keep them separate from
the rest of the congregation, to the
re at annoyance of tht cure, who took
every opportunity of showing openly
his contempt for them. one of the in
habitants, still alive, very advanced
age, remembers that, on one occasion,
just’ before the breaking out of (what
we have been accustomed to call) the
great revolution, a cagot woman hav
ing acc dentally pasted the bouudary in
the church ia which they were re
right is of no sex—truth is of no color-god is the father of us all, and all we are brethren
j strained, the oure burst into a rage ii
the middle of the service, and shoutet
out, votre place n’cat pas la, cagot
et sachez que moi, que je soie devan
ou derriere vous, je auis toujour® votr«
cure; mais vous autres, que vou>
soyez devant ou derriere, vous ne seres
i jamais que de villains cagots!”
the prejudice agaiust the cagoti
was not confined to the ulterior of the
church; for in almost every parish
there was a separate cemetery for them
or at least a place set apart for them ir
the cemetery belonging to the church;
a person who was not a cagnt woulc
not on any account be interred neat
thorn.”
people then were as ready in finding
arguments to justify their antipathies,
as they are now. at one time thej.
would charge the cagots with witch*
craft; at another, they would denouticv
them as lepers, though not tire slightest
proof lias ever been found to justify
such denunciation. according to
popular tradition, still preserved in two
or three places, they were the descend
ants of the carpenter who made tht
cross on which christ was crucified—
and the only reason that could be given
for this was, that their occupation, as
mechanics, was generally that of car
penter. in reply to a remonstrance
uttered by them against the refusal oi
the clergy of navarre to allow them t
participate in the rites of the church
the huisser of the conseil royal, in
opposing their demands, traced their
genealogy back to gehazi, the wicked
servant of elisha, (as the africans are
said to be the descendants of canaan,
the cursed) and as the prophet’s
curse was still hanging over them, he
concluded them to be spiritually leprous
and damned. one can see in all this;
the propensity of human uatureto seek
justification for feelings, which no rea
son can explain or authorize, in reli
gious sanctions.
it is worthy of remark, that the pro
scribed races of white people, like the
slacks among us, bore the contempt
and persecution inflicted upon them,
j with wonderful patience; and, in a few
instances where the attempt has been
made to rescue the cagot population
from an intolerant neighborhood, by re
moving them to a distant'part of the
country, they always showed an eager
desire to return to their native place.
in the beginning of the seventeenth
century, the medical faculty undertook
to undermine this unaccountable preju
dice, by demonstrating that these ca
gots were just like other people, and
one may suppose that philanthropic
persons, more under the control of their
judgment l.than feelings* coaopereted in
such efforts. towards the close of the
century, the local parliaments began to
take up their cause, and by various
judgments and arrets sought to secure
them the enjoyment of civil rights. it
is recorded that a bishop of tarhes,
m. de rnmagne, who died in 1763,
went so far as to admit to the priest
hood several individuals of cagot origin
l —the first instance of such liberality
:on the part of the clergy! finally,
i those distinctions of race disappeared
almost entirely irf the convulsions of the
i french revolution of 1793. the ca
gots of spain were not acknowledged
by law till 1817, and so late as 1840.
one of them was obliged to proceed
against the inhabitants of arisau, be
fore the ecc'esiastical tribunal of pam
peluna, to obtain admission to a full
participation in the ceremonies of the
church. the case was not. settled
till 1813, when it was decided in hu
favor.
from the piewaylfaiiia freeman.
the right df suffrage.
a convention has been called by the
people of color, to assemble in harris
burg on the 13th of december, to
i take measures to secure their p ditical
equality in this state. meetings for the
same purpose are being held by them
in various parts qf the state and we
see evidences of an awakening interest
in the subject, among these victims ol
american prejudice, and indications ol
a general and simultaneous movement
to regain their rights. such an effort
we have long hoped for, and antici
pated, as one of the results of their
increasing intelligence and self-respect;
of its ultimate success we have no
more doubt, than of the coining ol
spring and summer, to brighten the
brown fields and bare forests. let
them fairly develops the latent powers
which they possess now hidden not only
from the world but from themselves;
let them feel the dignity of manhood,
and the value of their rights, and merg
ing all petty jealousies and coutenti ms
in the great object, unite in a resolute
effort to gain those rights, and they will
not fail. the moral power of forty
thousand intelligent men, in a calm and
determined struggle by peacevul means,
for their long plundered liberties, will
be irresistible. let none among them j
be discouraged by previous failure, or
long endured oppressieb. they are
now capable of making a demonstra
tion of feeling atid strength such as
they have never before made, and tbe
whites are better, prepared than ever be-;
fore to listen to their demand. they
owe it not only to themselves and their 1
children, but to the abolitionists who'
have, through year! of reproach, de
fended their cause, and to ibeir brethren j
m bonds, whose deliverance their own
elevatioa would hasten, to lav agile all
their dissensions, and join in this grand
moral struggle for their true position in
society. _
so white men can do for them what
they can do for themselves. heartily,
will we help to remove the impedimenta
to their eftevstioa. but that must be their'
own jtchieyg* l p b,h w ll
never be ci*ed ulttbey beg.trio walk j
in it. let them nae and go iwd,;
rochester, n. y., friday, december 22, 184 s.
ii and difficulties shall furl off from theii
i way like clouds before the coming sun
sympathy and encouragement will cotm
i to them litrai unexpected sources. old
prejudices once loosened, will be
swept away, like old piles o! rubbish in
a river bed, torn up by a spring freshetj
each one swelling the force by whiefi
those below are to be overcome. poli
ticians and tbe press will not b«4>ng in
finding motives of interest, if they have
no higher, to take up their cause, and
long before they now dare hope for it.
their rights will be returned to them by
the very hands which tore them away.
we hope our friends will every where
renew with spirit the agitation for the
am nduient of the constitution, to give
the tight of suffrage to the people ol
color. by proper exertions a mamoth
petition can be'rolled in upon the le
gislature at the coming session,'which
-hall astonish and. intimidate its op
posers in both parties. let them see
that we are in earnest, that we are
willing to spend time and money and
labor, to secure our object, and our re
quest will be respectfully heard and
considered. a hundred thousand names
to such a petition would give weight to
our arguments ih their eyes. we
nelieve that this number can be ob
tained, if every man and,womnn will do
thwir duty. but if we fail to secure
such an array, a half, -a quarter, or
even a tenth part of the number will
make a powerful impression on the law
makers of the state.
we are sometimes asked how we can
demand a tight for our colored breth
ren, which we would not advise them
to exercise because it is their right.
they should have the same opportuni
ty with ourselves, of being their own
judges whether to vote or not. they j
are tnen, equal in rights to all othei
men, and this disfranchisement is a
denial of their equal manhood. it sug
gests and enci uiuges insults and injuries
to them in all other relations to society,
and tends to destroy their self respect,
and degrade them in the eyes of others.
it is an act of injustice on our part, in
jurious to our own hearts, and a pre
cedent to innumerable other wrongs,
and must tend to create and foster a
jealousy among its victims, toward th*
whites. it is a denial by our govern
ment of our own religious faith and
political creed, and the support of a
foolish aristocracy in our midst. wt
demand its repeal as an act of duty by
the whites, of justice to the colored man,
and a testimony of principle to tin
world, as we would demand the repeal
of a law prohibiting the joining of ro
man catholic or mormon, or ever
mahom *mf<l ac t»e-p sgun ebu relic a*w hilt
we should not join them, or advis<
others to do so. we demand of th«
government full religious and pniitira
freedom for all its subjects and citizens:
a freedom which would permit them
do many things which we wo lira per
suade them to avoid and we are wil
ling to trust entirely to the power o
truth to restrain the exercise of the lib
erty we ask. is there any inconsistency
here then were the protestants ot
england inconsistent in advocating
catholic emancipation and the libera
puritans of new england in removing
legal disabilities frstn the quakero
then we must limit our claims for thr
rights of conscience and personal free
dom, to auch acts alone as wo believt
perfectly moral and expedient. it if
too narrow a platform for us to occupy,
though it permits us and all who entirely
agree with us, to do what we think
duty. we have no scruples in asking
for our neighbors tbe same right o
private judgment which we wish foi
ourselves.
from f we reflscwr an 1 watchman. _
slavery in the district of co
lux hi a.
of all questions which come home t*
the business and bosoms
-‘lave trade
henry l. ellsworth, for many year,
coinmissioner of patents, and whose
fame as a friend of agriculture and tlu
useful arts, is in the homes of our wh >le
country, in a speech delivered by him
at lafayettdf. indiana, (his preseni
home,)has state&aome facts which must
have their weight with the country.
mr. ellsworth as i have before said wa.»
a citizen of washington, for ten years,
he had an opportunity of seeing the op
eration of slavery in our district, and
here is what he says on the subject to
the farmers of indiana:
“a gentleman who once hailed from
virginia has unexpectedly arisen upon
the aland, and after admitting with much
courtesy’the sincerity of my remarks,
would lessen their force by calling me
a theorist. i compelled to reply—
l am from the yankee land. i have
resided ten long years in a slave tern
tory —the district of columbia—the lit
tle spot the nation fpsphaticlly calls her
o w n would to god that i could say
slavery was not there. but there it is,
to greet the arrival of strangers auract-i
ed to th# metropolis by business od
curioeity*! ye., ihyr. it l. in earful re-1
fu» «'g hl of k™** legi.la-■
t„m-near the «e«em g.te nf .he cap
ital and ehn »t reached by ml fla«.
•pen’ it found, welled l» end guarded,
with miracles end handcuff,..he pere
pharealia of e aleve eh.p. them h»-
n» aeings ere daily incarcerated and
and hr mght ..ut foe eale. hrw eapneed
and proved, like cattle .sound in wind
andlimb. md thetwro »d and dnvea to,
acefimate or dte in the r.ce swamp. or,
__ a* sugar plantation* of tbe soq|h.
here to". of p nd
sdullars foreve^to
la.. rrune to stock their farms.
here, 100, crime; oat seek
ofafrieen «lnoi|c jetg» theunfiwmo
ate if 1" d
again! those whojtave purchased theii
freedom live in constant fear of abduc
tion. ’1 have bona awakened at th<
dead hour of night by the suplication 01
a domestic, that i would save hfe sister,
whom the men were carrying off
knowing she was free, i went with a
friend in search of the captive; #e founc
her in custody of two ‘nigger hunters
who showed an advertisement, ssc
bounty; they claimed her*as a run
away; she protested by mr tear* anti
assertions that she was ndf a slave.
force was threatened; it would have
been resisted at all hazards. a nigh!
of horror to this girl passed away.
the light of day beamed upon the facts;
she was free and proved it. how nar
row her escape f—-if carried far away
her lip**ealed in silence, when would
her rescue arrive?—-allhe grave.
shalli tell whh what horror repre
sentatives at our court from foreign
lands behold, at the seat of government
the exibition of principles of this free
republic, where all men are by nature
born equal!
even the citizens of the district have
not uerve to behold the execution ol
their wishes. mothers separated from
their children, and the injunction o>t
to put asunder what god has joined to
gether, despised and rejected. slaves
are sent on pretence of business and
when beyond the sound of shrieks and
supplications, they are seized and borne
away to the pen.
here it is that fathers sell their own
children and themselves rivet the man
acles of slavery forever!
had wealth been mine i could have
consecrated it to a holy purpose. 1
could have saved some, who had learn
ed to tvad the bible and yield to its re
quirements, giving evidence by a chris
tian walk of the sincerity of brofession;
such i could have saved, not from ser
vile labor, but from the posession of one
whose motive was lust, whose cruelty
worse than death! if nature or accom
plishments adorn the female slave, it
is only to make her the object of grea
ter desire. i have urged the claims of
humanity, of pity, and mercy, all in
vain.”
i well remember the incident to
which col. ellsworth refers in the fore
going extract, for i was the friend who
accompanied him to the house where
these ‘nigger hunters’ had rudely enter
ed, and claimed the sister recently ie
turnej from ‘the free west* on a visit
to her relatives iu this city; nor shalt i
soon forget the feelings aroused by the
impudent menacing demeanor of these
men. they interogated as men hav
ing the sovereignty of life and liberty
iu their hands—‘the girl was black, the
law said a black face was, by presump
tion, a slave, and they had a right to
tier, and could and would imprison her
if they pleased;’ and that it was deemed
by them an act of distinguished cour
tesy to believe col. ellsworth and my
self when we assured them that the
lirl before them, was w'ell known to us
both, and had been for years employed
in our families .as a seamstress, and was
not the fugitive slave they were in pur
suit of. aad this is the law in the dis
trict of columbia, the free soil of our
confederacy.. roger williams,
a new settlement.
we lay before our readers a new
settlement in the town of upper flor
eucdponeida co. it is twenty-two
miles from the village of rome, where
the railroad depot jays, 23 miles from
the erie canal, 12 miles from the vil
lage of constantia, and 2 miles from
the village of florence, which is a
pleasant village, having three churches,
i school house and several stores. the
town of florence is a favorite town ot
tfr. g. smith. this village will be
principally occupied by -colored per
sons; each lot will be a quarter of an
acre, which will be large the soil is
io >d and the price of lots will be $3
each. $1 payable at time of pur
chasing, and the remaining $2 ten
t'ears <uter. lots can be purchased
ti-om the 23th of november until the
number of lots are sold in the upper
settlement, and which will enable «nr
hundred families to have a house on
the front of each lot; each person who
builds, can purchase, independent ol
their village lots, a farm of thirty or
fifty acres, at a low price, by paying
10 dellars down and ten years to.pay
the balane* at 4 per cent interest.
william h. topp, uud charles morton
paid a visit to tfie strttlement about two
years ago, who informed us that the
land is good,* that there is a small river
running through the settlement, con
taining trout and other fish; alsmjpdl
streams hod good roads. it mr but
about 9 hoars ride from albany. all
persons wishing to purchase lots will
write to mr. myers, albany, postpaid,
and they will receive their deeds from
are lawyer. it is our intention to move
m there with our family in the latter
part of april next. there is ten of
ifee lots already nurchascd by person*
mihts state, by persons in the
gnite of massachusetts. a number pi
friends have volunteered to assist us in
this enterprise, and we hope sil of the
friends of this enterprise will coroe up
and help us to the best of ibeir abtmits.
we authorise our agent* to receinf all
donations that may be given, stch a*
axes, ploughs, scythe* and all articles
that may be used hr the benefit of the
settlers. —we hope -our frieods will
take into conatderggjion the benefiulfcaf
will be derived from'purchasing these
lots where they caifaite their fern
provision*, and will net be obliged to
every dollar thar tarn to the bad
pod for the neceraasries of li%£§
lire now compdthed to do ia#vb
large cities.— comg/^mrmer.
fteve the conruripte jmtr your oldi
doiim,, mtilfm mgmgm
away with war!
odf you ever think of the evils o
war did you ever realize that it wa
one of the greatest curses of mankind
did you ever see that the practice o
war idled the world with blood, wit!
slavery, with barbarism and even
specie! of misery yet this is th»
case md, reader, are you not a mill
tary mau, or guilty in some way of pro
moting war if so, complain not o
want, suffering, ignorance, or degra
dation. oppressed laboring man 01
factory girl, don’t murmur at youi
bard lot; if your politics, religion 01
social influence upholds war, the re
proach falls upon your otrn head. yui
foolishly empty your own pockets an«j
cause your rwn sufferings. bencvolem
man, philanthropist —do you favoi
armies, navies, and military govern
ments wonder not, then, at tht
depravity of man and the slow pro
gress of truth and righteousness. youi
self-contradiction ami inconsistency ii.
sustaining the custom of war, swell?
the current of wickedness inure than
pour go id efforts can that of righteous
uess.
what has war done ?—evil, evil!
it has done nothing but evil ii
has destroyed human life, property,
virtue and happiness nothing else
has it aimed to do. drunkenness, pro
fanity and licentiousness have been its
legitimate products. widows, orphans,
paupers, beggars it has multiplied.
l>r. dick essuuates that fourteen thou
sand millions of human beings have
been slaughtered by war—inhabitants
enough to people 18 worlds like the
earth think of this. what greater
curse could wickedness invent? plague,
pestilence and famine have followed
in its track hut these of themselves
iiave not begun to equal war in their
number of victims. had hyenas,
tigers, panthers and serpents been
the world’s only inhabitants, they would
hot have equaled man in the destruc
tion of life. what a held of human
bones what a sea of human blood
what has war cost'! —the mere
money cost of war has been enough to
pauperize the world. according to re
liable estimates the present unpaid
war debt of europe and the united
states, incurred within the last itio
years, is about steen thousand million
dollars! the annual interest of this
debt, including the expenses of the
army and navy, is nearly four hun
dred million dollars. the specie
circulation of the world does not equal
this amount, and, according to hutu
bo'dt, the mines of south america and
mexico have am yielded this sum since
the discovery of the new woild by
columbus 50 per cent, of the annual
expenditures of european governments
goes for military purposes. no wonder
the people are crushed beneath such a
load, on top of the expenses of royalty,
nobility and aristocracy. no wonder
the people are taxed for nil they eat,
drink nnd wear, for sunshine, air and
water—taxed for being born, taxed for
breathing, taxed for dying.
in the united states, the executive,
legislative and judicial departments of
government are not poorly paid at all.
but for every 21 cents they receive $1
is paid for purposes of war. 80 per
cent, *of the government expenses are
for war! within the borders of massa*
chusetts scarcely a cent has been!
expended for schools, colleges and!
charitable asylums where dollars have!
been lavished upon war-ships, the
navy-yard and the arsenal in addi
tion to ail this, the annual cost, in time
and money, of training the miittiaof the
united states is calculated to be fifty]
multon dollars. why should nt there
be poverty and hard times in this
country
fhfcncll constituton.
the national assembly has passed
the constitution by a vote of 73d to 30
and made provision for its proclamation
on the 12th november with great pomp
and circumstance, in the place de iff
concorde.
the thirty who voted against the
con>titution are of all parties, but most
of them montagnards, or. red repub
licans.
constitution is certainly a very
grand form of self-government and a
great improvement in some respects
upon oars, though it vastly
too much power to the iflweuttve, who
receives a salary of six hundred thmi- 4
sand francs and the appointment rot
only of his ministers, but, in the coun
cil of his ministers,* of the diplomatic
agents of the government the comman
ders in chief of armies by land or sea/
the prefects, the superior officer of lh<
national guards of the seine, the
governors of algeria and the colonies,
the procurers-general ar d other su
perior functionaries. he also appoints,
at the recommendation of a competent
minister, according to the rules and
conditions fixed by law, the secondary
agentsof the government.
to guard against the abuse of power,
it is proclaimed treason for the presi
dent to dissolve the assembly.
the rights of the citizens, guarantied
by the constitution, are aa follows.
article 2. no one can be arrested ot
detained except in pursuance of um
prescriptions of the law.
art. 3. the dwelling of any ptrsor
inhabiting french territory, is inviol
able r it is hot permitted to forew ai*
entrance rgn it except according to tin
jbnm audio the eyes provided by
art. 4. no one crt bo withdraw
iron bio natural judges. eu§*ordf|
aaiy aapriminiuo or tribunals cannot tx
ufbntevel *l r
v ait. the peuaky of doatfriwov
|pm i» all political antlers.
john dick. pvuiiai*.
whole no—s2.
art. 6. slavcrt cannot exist ojf
french soil.
art. 7. every person shell f.eely
profess his religion, sod receive ex
*>qu*l protection in the exercise of ite
worship. the ministers both of the
sects at preseat recognined by the lew,
»nd of those which rosy hereafter be
so bhall ceive support from the state.
art 8. the cittxens have the right!*
ass >oate, to assemble peaceably sod
without arms, to petition, and to maoi
.tst their sentiments by the press or
otherwise. the exercise of these
rights has no other limit than the rights
or the liberty of others end the public
security. riie press cannot in any
case be subjected to ceosorship.
art. 9. instruction is free. the
liberty of instruction is exercised ac
cording to the conditions in regard to
capacity and morality determined by
the laws, and under the supervision of
the state.—this supervision shall ex
tend to all establishments of education
and iustiuctmn without exception.
art. 10. all citizens are equally si
missible to ail public employments,
without any other motive of preference
than their merit, and according to the
conditions which shall be fixed by the
law.—ah titles of nobility, and all
distinctions of birth, class or caste arc
forever abolished.
art. 11. all properties arc inviolable.
nevertheless, the state can exact the
sacrifice of a property, for the sake of
the public good legally proven, and in
consideration ot a just and previously
paid indemnity.
art. 12. the confiscation of goods
shah never he re-cstabli*hed.
ait. 13. the constitution guarantees
to the citizens the liberty of labor and
industry.
society favors and encourages the
developcinent cf labor by primary
gratuitous instruction, professional
edfeation, the equality, of the relations
between the patron and the workman,
institutions of saving and credit, agri
cultural institutions, voluntary associa
tions, and the establishment by the state,
by the departments and the communes,
of public works suitable to employ un
occupied hands it furnishes assistance
to abandoned children, to the infirm
and the aged, and those whom their
friends cannot support.
art. 14. '1 he public debt is guarantied.
every engagement whatever entered
into by the state with creditors is in
violable.
art. 15. every tax is laid for the
public good.—each is to contribute to
it according to his ability and his for
art. 16. no tax can be laid or col
lected except by virtue of a law.
art. 17. a direct tax is to be settled
but for one year. the imposition of
indirect taxes may be settled for several
years.
it will be seen by the above articles
which we translate pretty literally from
the new constitution, that the right to
labor is not repudiated, while provision
for it is not so expressly guarantied as
the social reformers desiied.
the constitution provides a council
of state, independent of the president
nnd hi* ministers, to be consulted by
them as to ail legal measures which
they propose, ns well as to examine all
such us originate in the assembly.—
chronotypc.
suggestions on dress.- dress is
intended for warmth, decency, and
comfort not fof gaudy show, nor to
excite vanity and pride. be careful.
:hen, never to sacrifice health, decency
to a love of finery.
bestow but a small portion of your
time, money, or thoughts, upon diets
there are things of far greater moment
which demand the larger part.
alwuys have something better to
recommend you than the gannents that
cover your person. if these are your
chief recommendation, it is a proof that
they occupy the chief place in your
heart; in other words that you are
vatu and frivolous character.
guard against the love of dress, last
it should lead you to self-flattery, ex
travagance, dissipation and ruin. re
member that neither fine
personal beauty will, last long. in a
few years, at most, we shall have noth
ing to wear but a shroud sod a coffin,
and instea#s>f being admired or* shall
be luatheot
on the other hand da not rush iota
the extreme ol“ rigid strophe it y sod
singularity. the roediuor of propriety
in dress may be expressed hy the teram
plain, becoming, dignified.
let your dress be oeat, modest, and
appropriate to times and seasons, and
as far as is consistent with the foregoing
cautions, agreeable to those with whom
you associate.
t steam, pigeons and liciitxixo.—
xe finer illustration of the wonderful
effects of enterprise, in making use of
»he resources rarnished by nature and
ever seen than ia the reception
bfffihe britannia’s news iu this city on
saturday last. a summary of the news
was prepared on the steamer, by s per
son who went to halifax for the pur
pose. this was placed upon the necks
of carrier pigeons, whir* were liber
ated when seventy or s afghty miles from
boston. they reached boston between
9 and 10 on. saturday, sod the news
iqunediately transmitted to pbila
philadelphia. it was given to the pub
,c of this city ip an extra bulletin at 1
.’clock, sod more, than an bear before
he britannia arrived at her wharf iu
boston.—|
acted bock »<rf good wo».«
»xc client ft r ux.se who know bowtpap
mecintetheir value. there are
lowever. who judge both
beauty of the certr f
important debatr—blew mexico bit
very.
a debate took place in the .senate of the
united states, on wedencsday last, prowutg
out of the presentation, by mr. hentou. of a
petition of the people of new mexico, in
which they pray to have no lot or part in the
peculiar institution*’* of the south. the*
following 19 aenpy oif the petuion
petition of ih' people of ,w mi.rieo, ostnn
)jed in conetntoon, to the cont ent of the
united statu of america.
we, the people of new mexico, respect
fully petition congress for the speedy organ- s
lzation, by law, of a tcrruotum government
for ns.
we respeettuliy petition congress to gram
us a government purely civil in its character.
we respectfully represent that the organic,
md statute laws promulgated hv authority of,
tit* l ruled states, september 2*2d, 1846, for
the temporary civil government of new mex
too, a copy of which ts despatched, with some
few alterations, would be acceptable to as.
we desire the following offices to be filled
by appointment of the president of the i’nited
states, by and with the advice and consent of
the senate: governor, seenlary of state,
i’nited states marshal, l'nited states district
attorney, and judges.
w e desire to have all the usual rights of
appeal from the courts of this territory to the
supreme court of the l'nited states.
we respectfully but firmly protest against
the dismemberment of our tenitory in favor
of texas, or for any cau.-t.
we do not desire to have domestic slavery
within onr borders; and, until the time shall
arrive for oui admission into the i’nion as a
state, we desire to be protected by congress
igainst their introduction among us.
wc desire a local legislature, such as is
prf<tcribed in the laws of new mexico, sept.
s*2d, 184fi. subject to the usual acts of t'ott
gress.
we dc-ire that onr interests may be repre
sented bv a delegate, who is to be entitled to
have a seat upon the floor of the congress of
the l’nited states.
in consideration of the fact that new mexi
co contains from 75,000 to 100,000 souls, we
believe that wf. have made no unreasonable
request; and wc confidently roly upon con
gress to provide for us laws as lilieral ns nnv
enjoyed by any of the territories.
santa fe. oct 14th, 1818.
(signed) josf. martini./..
j. m. biddings, secretary, and others.
mr. menton moved that the petition he
printed and referred to the committer*, on
territories. 1 pon this motion a very ani
mated dehate, seasoned slightly with person
alities, sprang up. mr. beuton’said
i brought this petition up in a manner
which, if it was not the most judicious, was
certainly so in my opinion, to avoid having
one single word said about it at this time. it
presents questions which will occupy, sir,
much of our consideration, when wc arrive at
them in their regular order, andtphere is no
necessity of taking them up by wav of anti
cipation. i did nut even make the statement
of the contents of the petition, because that
statement might be inure or less productive
of debate. 1 asked to have it read, and it
was read. 1 asked that it should be pliuted
and referred, not making one word of remark.
all this was doing just as little as could be
done to comply with the parliamentary
forms.
mut, sir. it has been assaiied, ami epithets
applied to it. the senat >r from south
carolina has said it was natural for me to
think of that petition as 1 do, and natural for
him to think of it as he did. well, sir, the
only opinion that 1 expressed about it was,
that it was a petition of right, and respectfully
worded and presented that those petitioners
were not subject to the imputation of insolence
for presenting it. and now, sir, since it has
been persevered in, 1 will 6ay tliai the only
part of that petition to w hich the term inso
lent” applies, in the opinion of the gentleman
from south carolina, is that part which re
lates to the subject of slavery. i will say
that (perhaps without knowing it) these pe
titioners have used the very words of the
general assembly of virginia to george 11!.
before the breaking out of the american rev
olution. and though george 111. did not
grant that petition, yet i never heard that he
said it was insolence in the general assembly
of virginia to present it.
mr. calhoun replied
mr. president, i made no charge as to the
manner in which the petition was presented.
my objection, sir was to the petition itself.
the senator sees in that petition no disre
spect to the people of one-half the states ol
this union. i see the greatest disrespect to
the people of the south. he endeavors to
assimilate it to the base of the general as
sembly of virginia and george 111. the
ease, sir, is antagonistic. it bears no com
parison. mut 1 will not undertake at this
time to point out the difference. sir, the
southern states claim the right, order the
constitution of our country, to go into any
portion of the territory conquered by the arms
of the united states, and especially by troops
drawn from that portion of the country; and
l think that to pray that vve shall be excluded
from it, is the height of insolence, though
thu senntor from missouri docs not perceive
it but that is no fault of mine.
mr. clayton, after explaining the part ho
had taken in regard to the presentation of the
petition, on consultation with mr. benton,
defined his position after this fashion
mr. president, i deprecate any discussion
upon the two questions which are most calcu
lated to excite any discussion while the peti
tion is in this preliminary stage—the question
whether slavery shall be restricted in that
territory, and the question whether the limits
of the territory shall boon this side of the
mio grande, or whether they shall stop with
the rivet. these mattets may be appropri
ately discussed when the committee to which
the petition will be referred can make their
re|>ort and state propositions distinctly for the
consideration ot the american senate. mut
now, fcir, there is no question before the
senate. a debate upon the matter can only
have the effect to prejudge the claims of the
petitioners to have a civil government. my
views u|wm one great question stated in the
memorial aic perfectly well kuown to the
senator from suutli carolina and to the sen
ator from florida. ]do submit to ihe gentle
man from south carolina that, upon full
consideration, he will reconsider the charge ot
insolence. it h means that the petition is
disrespectful, he is greatly mistaken, as 1
think.—lt it is insolent, it ot coutsc must be
di-respectful; and if it is disrespectful to onc
half of the senators upon this floor if it ts
disrespectful to any (kirtion of ihe senatoib!
upon this floor—it ought not to be received
much less to be referred and printed. but it
is not; there is not a word ol it calculated to
excitaany such feeling. these gentlemen
say they are opposed to the introduction of
slavery. new, whether they are abolitionists,
or whatever they are, they have a right to
asy thgl—hive they not j why, sir, if a
petition was sent here, claiming to be signed
by some fifteen* gentlemen who desired that
slaves should be introduced there, would any
gentleman rise and say that it was desresnect
ful to one-half the senate, or to onc-half the
country—to the great north, which has
claimed through the whole campaign that
there—shall b* no slavery either in california
or in new mexico
mr. president, l sought to discharge toy
duty merely by stating my disposition to give
that people a form of cml govermnoot. lj
regret that any observation should haw fallen
from any quarter caleo ated to injure the
great cause of the petitioners, who claim that
a civil government shall be ex‘»ndfd over
them. i hope, sir, that, without further op*!
position, (if there bad been any opposition,)
rhe memorial will be printed.j
mr. hale spoke more lo the poitt. h***
is the conclusion of hb speech
thk sir. i« a petition asking legislation
upon a m.nt serious subject— a subject upon
iuclt the honorable senator from mississippi
ins well *atd that the public mind has been
trreatlv agitated, and upon which it will cue*
iimio to bo agitated until the question is defin
itively sftthd —not compromised. i do not
mievc that compromise will meet the case
but it must be settled, and settled upon prm
ci[>le; and it i« just as well to meet it here as
at auy time. 1 hope, sir, that those who
believe that ti.e people of that country are
entitled to a government "til be prepared to
give a vote upon this question, and to give it
now.
ivories, sir. this question is put upon the
democratic platform—upon the platform ol
of the nicholson letter. that, sff, laid down
the doctrine that the matter should be left to
the j»er.plc of the country. now, eir, the
people have spoken. they have probably
read the nicholson lettor, sod have thtwgbt
that congress in its progressive march bad
got up to the step indicated by that letter.
they may also have heard that there is a
change going on in the public mind. of this,
however, not heme certain, they have come
here upon the nicholson letter, and have
pct.tioned f**r su<-h a government as they
desire. though the election has proved dis
astrous to the man who built the platform, yet
it.- principles arc not so entirely abolished but
that they might appeal to the man who built
the platform to stand by it, now that ii has for
the first tunc a practical and efficient meaning.
they have come here in the very spirit of the
nicholson letter, and hare asked that we
would ghe them the first dose of the nichol
son r.i dicine; and shall we refuse it’ flfhail
we, who have been fighting this great battle
upon this platform, now that the question u>
put to the test, kick over the platform upon
which we have stood, and upon which we
have fought so manfuiiy no sir, i trust not,
but i hope that all those who believe that
the ntclnlson lettei contained the true doc
trine, that there has not been a
change in those things, will come up and
vote lor a government for this people, which
they asked for with so much confidence al
though they would have asked for it with still
more confidence it the author of this nichol
son letter had been placed at the head of the
government. i hojte, sir, that the memorial
l»o referred, with instructions to the committee
to report a bill in accordance with the prayer
of the petitioners.
i pon the question of printing the petition,
a vote was taken with the following result
yeas.—messrs allen, atchison, ather
ton, badger. baldwin, benton, bradbury,
breese, bottler, cameron, clarke, clayton,
corwin, dayton, dickinson, d:x, dodge,
douglass. belch, fitzgerald, hale, hamlin,
johnson of maryland, johnson of louisiana,
metcalfe, miller, niles, pearce, spruance,
•sturgeon, fmjcnvt'od, fphain, and walkei
nays—messrs. berrien, borland, cal
houn, davis of mississnpt, downs, fitzpat
rick. foote, houston, hunter, king, busk,
tuiney. westcott, and yulec.—l4.
so the memorial was ordered to ufc printed.
the question being then put upon the refer
ence, it was referred to the committee on
territories.
the north star.
rochester, december 23, 1848.
the first volume of the north star
completed.
ll is with some degree of complacency that
we make the above annoucement. persons
j unacquainted with the expense, difficulties and
hardships to be encountered and endured by
one who undertakes to establish a large
i weekly periodical, id ..noted to an unpopulai
cause, with few friends, small capital, and
smaller experience, can but poorly appreciate
the satisfaction which we feci in even the
limitej success implied in this announcement,
those only who have attempted similar expo
ritnents, can either comprehend our labors, oi
penetrate the pleasure of this partial toward,
the first volume of the north star is com
pleted. it has lived through one year—has
made its appearance regularly—has not missed
a single friday morning since the day of its
publication—those who subscribed at its com
mencement have not lost their money by the
going down" of the paper. our pledge
that the paper should live one year, is re
deemed. those who refused to subscribe for
it on the ground that the paper would not be
sustained, have thus far been reproved for
their w ant of faith and unwillingness to hazard
something in a good cause, and we trust have
been taught to act more w isely and generously
in time to come. the feasibility of the un
dertaking has been quite fairly demonstrated,
and the utility of the existence of such a pa
per has been established. for all this we feel
sincerely thankful.
of the character of the paper thus far, we
need say but little our readers can judge ol
that perhaps better than ourselves. that it
has not been all that was desired or expected,
there can he no doubt. many imperfections
might be easily pointed out,both in the manner
and the matter of it. we brought to it only
that which we had, and all that we had—very
little to bo sure, but the best could do no more.
in conducting the paper, wc have aimed to
make it a terror to evil-doers, and a praise to
those w ho do well—never in any case shun
ning to speak the whole truth, or shaping our
words to gain the favor of any whose friend
ship is to be gained by concessions to either
their dptu wickedness or their neglect of the
cause of righteous liberty. we have spoken
without the fear of man before our eyes. at
all times trying to place ourselves in the posi
tion of the outraged slave, wc have striven t«.
sec and to feel the injustice done him as doae
unto ourselves, and have thought and spoken
accordingly. on this point we have nothing
to regret, unless it be that the poverty of our
language and the want of skill in the use of it.
have rendered us unable to convey a just im
pression ot the foul treachery and ruinous
wrongs’’ under which we. as a people, groat
from day to day. deeply devoted to the cau*
of the fettered bondman at the south, we
have not been unmindful of the rights and in
terests ot our disfranchised and oppressed
brethren at the north. while vindicating
then rights, w c hate not spared their errors,
or neglected to point out to them,so far sew*
could see, the true pathway from ignorance u
intelligence, and from degradation to respect
ability. at all times commending the faithfu
amongst us, and rebuking the recreant, en
couraging what was good, and opposing wba'
was bad. hstever may be the complaint
which may be urged against the editorial de-,,
panment with respect to its moral tone, at tb*
bar of our own conscience we sund acquitted.
our faults hue, if any there be, have reseller'
from the head and not from the bean. in ad
mitting that tho paper has not been regq
larly supplied frum week to week with well-
jigested editorial matt r, it is but just to add.
n extenuation, thtt we have beencojqpsued
d'inrg net hr one half of the year to be ii
the lecturing field, instead of the editoria
chair; and this excuse, good as itis, ao read
i of the north star canmete ardently de*
sire to be removed than ourselves. tt
combine the duties of th lecturer with iboai
of the editor, is a task not easily accom
plished. the roan who can iravel and rnakt
speeches half the year and edit a urge weekly
newspaper at the same time, has a vigor ot
intellect and a steadiness of nerve to wbicfc
we lay no claim. those there may be wb
can do it—we cannot. we do not, however
regret the attempt. the experience derived
from it is most valuable, and a satisfactory
compensation.
now to*the future. shall the north stsi
i continue to sbioirupon the ranks of freedom'!
advancing hosts shall it be sustained 1 u
shall it go down 1 sorry are we to say it,
and yet duty requires us so to do, we have nc
golden or enthusiastic holies to present ir
answer to the foregoing questions. that *t
desire its continuance, no one can doubt wh«
has witnessed our endeavors to have it sub
tamed but that it shall be continued, most be
answered by others. a newspaper cannoi
live by sympathy alone. it depends for it*
existence upon something more substantial—
it must jive by money. money, got either
from subscribers or friends—either sttbscrij
lions or donation*, must be its support. in
the absence of these, no periodical car long
survive, unless its proprietors arc disposed t<>
run in debt; and this we are resolved not tt
do. to do so, would be a felony. if tht
north star is sustained, it must be done ot
j cash terms —it must not be done by running it
debt, the failure to pay which would even bt
1 more disastrous to the cause of the oppressed
than would result from the abandonment o
the paper, great as the latter disaster may ap
pear. if slaveholders and their guilty com
panions would grin in fiendish derision at tht
failure of the paper, they would do mort
should we quit the field dishonorably. but it
1 the question—shall the north star he con
j tinued it may be, and ought to be, andean
be and it would be a great shame to the fret
colored people and their friends for it not t«
be. the paper has now some reputation it?
existence is not an obscure fact. the peo
ple of this country, north and south, art
aware of its existence. its columns are widely
quoted from by the press, both anti-slavery
and pro-slavery—the former with approbatioi
i —the latter with opposition, warmed intr
i life by a mean and malignant prejudice. the
paper is extensively known in europe; iu
j establishment was hailed, and continues to bt
hailed, a 9 a sign of life and hope to million*
of our enslaved and oppressed fellow-country
men. its friends arc on both sides of the at
lantic and sltquld it fall from the mora
i sk v, it would be trussed and regretted by many
dear friends, whus\ only wish is, that thf
cause of righteousness may triumph, and tha
our long-abused and neglected people may
enjoy the rights which a benevolent creatoi
designed them to possess w hile on the ollie
hand, the enemies of human brotherhood—
the haters of human freedom—the slanderer
of our race, might well take courage, am
cry, aha! aha! aha! we told you
these negroes are after all an inferior people
and that inferiority w ill show itself even whei
j they aro surrounded by the must favorable in
fluences for improvement.” we tremble at thi
i reproach which would fall upon us, shouli
i tins effort fail. it ought not to be—it mus
not be and so far us our efforts can prevent
shall not be. no; the north star must con
tinue to twinkle in the anti-slavery firmament
j we therelore call upon our old subscribers
j one bv one, male and female, old and young
all together, at once to renew their subscrip
tions, and do their beat to have their neigh
bora do the same, and the north star wll
continue to shine, to cheer the hearts of iti
friends, and to annoy and disappoint its eng
mies.
we cannot close this article without referr
ing to the history of tbs commencement of this
i paper, and the motives which induced us t<
aitempt its establishment. the idea onginatet
with us while in england, two years ago.—
we thought then, as we certainly think now,
j that a weekly newspaper, of large size, undei
the editorial management of colored persons
devoted to the interest of the oppressed anc
i proscribed of the land, conducted with a re
spectable degree of talent, would be a mosi
i useful instrumentality against slavery at tht
south, a complete contradiction of the chargt
of natutal inferiority universally prelerrec
against us at the north, and a powerful in
strumentality lor the removal of the malignam
prejudice by w hich w e are continually assailed
all over the land. this idea we mentioned tt
a few devoted friends of the slave in new
castle-upon-tyne and in carlisle. pleased
with the suggestion, and earnestly desirous
of doing anything consistent with christianity
towards overthrowing the unrighteous system
i of human |*>ndage, these dear friends, with
the zeal and earnestness of pure, disinterested
i b nevolence, at once set about the work oi
trying to raise a sum of money large enough
to furnish an office dfti a press and printing
j materials, is be put st our service. theit
noble t-fforts w ere soon crow ned w ith complete
success. more thau two thousand dollars
were raised, and placed at our disposal, to be
used in that way which, in our judgment,
would best promote tit* emancipation, im
-1 provement and elevation of the oppressed and
i disfranchised of this laud. finding ourselves
thus providentially in possession of the means
of commencing the publication of a paper,
though strongly persuaded against the meas
ure by dear frier ds in this country impelled
by a sense of duty which no friendships,
coansels or appeal* could shake* pe spread
•»ur starry banner upon the breeae, hoping
never to strike it until the wolfish, bloody,
starved and ravenous” system of slavery is
leveled with the dust.—r. d.
fair for the north star.
it will be sean by a letter in another col
umn, signed palmetto,” that the ladies in
philadelphia, deairousof sustaining the north
star, are to hold a fair during christmas
wed. the haste with which it has been got
up, while tt does great credit to the excellent
ladiea who hare been active in it, will proha
bly be a barrier to any degree of peespimy
success. we pmelt highly a* evidence of
the esteem in which the papet-fh bold by £e
oppressed# tod hope it will prose the «om>
meneemaat af further efforts in the same
causa." thi north star mot matiaaa to
•buie —r a,j ii
expatriation
governor smith, of yagiaia, bat jo«
pond, for the third time, to the lsgwbtttn
of that state, the removal of the fiee colored
people. he rwco.um jodi tbs passage of law*
by the l?ftslature for the accomplish.nent *»l
this result. fro it no high functionary iu «bii
lend has th .nr ever cu.m a more uojost an«
i apuje it propssiuoj. for a landlord to ex
pel a fa n.ly waic.i his failed to pay rent
regularly, excates cu.npaj*ion fin the family,
and indignation against the landlord, in any
but a heart of stone; but for a person to go
into the house ind home of a man, and compel
nim by force to leave, is to make hiraseli
guilty of a crime, compared with which high
way robbery is insignificant. hat have tht
jolored people done to merit this cold
jlooded treatment at the hands of their white
u.-igtibors* and what right has this high*
.landed plunderer lo propose then expulsion
*vbo gave him or his villainous companions a
right to expel any portion of the human fam
ily from any portion of the habitable globe t
of o.is blooj goj mide all nations, to dwell
ou all the face of the eanh. has one raern
oer of the family a nght to decide for the
otherwhere he shall or shall not live* do
human nghta depend upon the tvbims and ca
prices of wicked men 1 bat shame on all
reasoning in a case so plain. it would seem
that any man needing to be instructed on such
i point, is a lit subject for the inad-hnus.'.
the colored people hare as good a right to
•ive in virginia as has this insolent governor.
for two bandied years they hive toiled ovei
its fields—** have watered them with their
blood”—they have baen the laborers of that
state, the source of all the wealth that the
estate enjoys—they have reaped down the
fields, white the laay, lounging whites have
reaped the harvest, and to expel them from
their homes, is an act of cruel rapacity de
serving the execration of the civilized world.
we saj* to our brethren, stay in virginia.—
do not move an inch from her borders. give
up your lives ralher than your homes. be
firm. show that you are men and not beasts.
stand by your firesides, your wives, and your
children. many of you have wives in bond
age stay by them, never leave them. god
will stand by you, and the sense of justice ol
ihe whole world w ill be ou your side. if you
give way, some other state, emboldened by
ilie wicked example of virginia, will propose
the same infernal measure, and soon the col
ored man will be on the bloody bayonets ol
white men throughout the union. we would
that you could hold publ c meetings among
yourselves, and give to the world an expres
sion of your views and feelings on this subject;
hut alas in addition to the ten thousand other
grievous wrongs you are compelled to endure,
the right to tell your wrongs to the world is
denied you. we are left to imagine your
hardships and sorrows, and this fact speaks
trumpet-tongued of their terrible charfectgr.
the reasons urged by governor smith, fol
the expulsion of the free colored people, de
feat themselves, and show that the evils ol
which he complains, result, after all, from the
immorality and cruelty of ihe whites, rathei
than from the immorality of tho blacks. ii
"easy to account for the fact, if it be a fact
that hete is a larger proportion of free ne
groes in the penitentiary, than whites. wher
it is admitted tha< by law he is forbid u
intermarry with the whites, to bear testimonj
against them—forbid to learn to read anc
write —to preach the word of god to his fel
i lows; and when it is remembered that the
i bare testimony of one white man against thai
i of a thousand blacks, will send a black mar
to the penitentiary, the disproportion in ques
tion is easily accounted for. in this same
slate of virginia there are seventy-one crimes
for which a black man may be execuied;
while only three of the same crimes will sub
ject a white man to the same punishment.
tne following is an extract from the gov
ernor’s message
by the penitentiary report, we also learn
that, on the first day of october last, there
were in the penitentiary 119 whites, and 81
negro convicts, the white population contribut
ing about 15 for each 100,000 persons, and
ihe free negroes contributing, from a similar
number of their own race, about 160 persons,
to the penitentiary; proving lhat ihe free
negro perpetrates at least ten times as much
crime in proportion to numbers as the white
man. this statement, verified by our legis
lation, presents such a picture of the moral
degradation of our free negro population as i>
well calculated to excite the the
philanthropist. without meaning to enter
into any discussion, as io the moral and intel
lectual capacity of the negro, as to which i
have heretofore very fully and distinctly ex
pressed my opinion, 1 ask how it is possible
thafbe can beutherihan he is, under the laws
to which we subject him? born in a hovel,
the companion of the slave, and the tool ol
the vicious white man, he naturally sympa
thizes with the degradation around him. by
law, he is forbid to intermarry with the w hites,
to bear testimony against them, to learn to
read and w rite, to the word of god to
his fellows, to bgnr arms, and to resent insults
from a white man. many other laws of the
same character are on our statute book and
in every relation, from the cradle to the grave,
he ta never allowed to forget that he 13 of an
inferior race. by the providence of goa,
such is his destiny and according in natural
sts, history, and ihe expenence of all man
kind, he is rngaided as the third, or an infe
rior species of the race ot man.
there is such a combination of impiety,
falsehood, and absurdity here, that one is led
to doubt if such sentiments ever dropped from
the lips of a governor in any state of this
union. why, there are fugitive slaves who
have never hail a day’s schooling till after
arriving to manhood, who would be ashamed
to have suchjniserable logic go to the world
over their signatures. an inferior speats
of the race of mm this is the same old
trick of tyranny. the haughty norman
once looked down upon the degraded and
subjected anglo-saxon as an inferior *|»ecies
of the race of man. the americans now
look down upon tbs mexicans ss so infs riot
•pecies of the race cf man; sod so, we sup
pose, it will ever be with successful tyrant*.
we have not room this wsek for all that this
wicked governor baa to say* our reader*
shall have it beat week.—r. o.
the haag's horn
is greatly in supposing that the
north star has any desire lev a controversy
with him. but we do desire that he will he
a little more careful in hit statements purport
ing lo be facts, but which to reality bav« do
•jriateoee beyiod tea own tmag ntion. he
at«ed ia his paper of november, that we hgrf
formed a eo-jonoarsbip*with him, and were
'lipr 4f (taf-bapi's horn w§
taued tbe correctness of flat etuemeat, and
instead of making h consistent with troth, the
editor talks now about bis extreme pais
that mr. douglass desires a controversy witk
the ram's horn? if this is honesty, whai
it evasion, and what dishonesty i—d.
gold heating exposed.
tire great subject of i'.t’rest in these dyys
is the caiifor.,ia gold discovery. p*h»pk
everywhere ihink about t—talk ahofll —proh
ably dream about it—tbe last 10 as much hd
rautage a* the focawr. tbe newspapers art
lull of intelligence, vying with each other, in
efforts to supply the latest news. some pi
them, following in the wake of the president,
write ’about it hi the grandiloquent strain ol
glorification so tastefully displayed in the re
cent message other some, having more mod
erate ideas of the benefits likely to accrue
from the gold n fleece so unexpectedly found
m the streams and ditches of california, woile
giving all the particulars, take up their para
ale and say, by way of caution to the adven
turous spirits that are anxious to share the
fortunes of the modem jasons—col. mason
and the “alcadc of monterey,’’ all is no
gold that glitters.” horace greeley has
driven a spike into these doubting editors, and
coolly informs them, that he “has seen the
gold, and those who any longer talk of mica,
in connection w ith it, must be geese.” there
is no help for it, then—it is gold—“ genuine"
gold. nuw the question, after all, arires,
whether it would not be just as well if it
were mica. the idea insisted on in the mes
sage, that a mint must at once be established
in the gold district, that the precious metal
may forthwith be coined into u. s. currency,
and thus saved to this country, is one of the
last, and cettainly not one of the least blun
ders in political economy. the true policy oi
the president ought to be, to discourage, by
all possible means, its too rapid diffusion.—
acting on the 44 satm qui pent" principle, so
much in vogue wirh governments, he should
levy a tax of twenty-five or thirty per cent, on
all the gold that finds its way into the united
stales. this would yield a considerable rev
enue, and drive not a small poition of it into
other countries, and they would thus share
the difficulty and the danget of a too sudden
expansion of the circulating medium. very
few argue in these days, that gold is very
valuable for its own sake. it is, indeed, more
ornamental than useful. it is good as a me
dium of exchange, representing so much la
bor. it is not the standard of exchange it
self, but only the representative of that stand
ard. it takes a certain amount of labor to
grow and bring into market a barrel of flour
it takes also a certain amount of labor to dig
from the earth, and coin into american cur
rency, so much gold in the form of halfeagles.
the labor required to produce the barrel of
flour must be just about the same that is re-
i quired to produce the half eagle, else the me
would not be an equivalent for the other.—
the"\l(mr merchant willingly takes the hall
eagle in exchange for his flour—thereforeth«
coin is by him considered a good representa
tive of the farm produce. but if gold could
gathered by the handful! in the public
i streets, either in the authorized government
form, or in chunks of a pound a-piece, it is
very evident that a barrel of flour would be
imuch more than an equivalent fuf the hall
eagle. no law could make the one equal to
the other; for this simple reason, that the
amount of labor bestowed upon the one would
be much greater than that bestowed upon the
i other. if we could do without a medium ol
exchange at all, it would be just so much la
»bor saved. suppose the amount of what arc
called the precious metals” already dug
from the mines to be just equal to one year’s
entire crop, the probability is, that the mining
and coining of these metals have required a
year’s labor of as many men as are now em
ployed in cultivating the soil. tho men who
dug the ore had to be rewarded for thctma*
j bor, and it took just about as much of the
earth's produce to support life in them while
they were thus occupied, as it does now to pay
and support the agricultural laborers. this
is what regulates the price of gold. it is not
in this respect like other articles of commerce,
regulated by the demand and supply. the
reason is, that gold is not corruptible, and
loses little or nothing of its value by age.—
that which was dug from the bowels of ’lie
-arth a hundred years since, is just as valua
ble as that which was melted yesterday in the
mint at philadelphia. not so with manufac
tured goods, or the produce of the farm.—
they all lose, and lose greatly by age. some
of them become entirely valueless in the
course of a very few years. therefore, if
there is more brought into the market than is
required for immediate use, the piospective
loss by age leads those who have these arti
cles of meichandize to dispose of, to force a
sale by suffering a present perhaps compara
tively small, rather than run the risk of a
futute and possibly a much greater loss.
that only, then, which, affects the price of
gold, is the greater or less amount of labor
required, taking the average of the peruvian,
chilian, virginian, and all other mines, to get
>t into a marketable state. this has been,
for s<wne years past, as before stated, in this
country, at the rate of about half an eagle
for a barrel of flour. dollar bills and bank
notes rest on s different foundation. they are
mere promises to pay, either in gold or in
something else of which gold is the repre
sentative, the amount stated. let it once be
found, that the promise to pay is sunply s
promise and nothing more, forthwith the bill
become* so much piper. no one will take
ths promise for the fact. wbat tbe value of
gold may hereafter be—ihat is, how much la
bor it will represent, is now the question. it
is not hfefcly that, as was recently the case at
california, it may become so depreciated, by
the ease with which it can be obtained, that s*
much as now sells here for $65 may be tbe
price of s barrel uf flour. such an amount
of depreciation is scarcely possible. yet this
one fact shows wherein consists the value of
tfold. it course, an exaggerated ease
tbe four, being a necessary of hfr, and tbe e
being less to be got than there was a demand
for, it received an unusual and fictitious addi
tion to its value by tbe com petition to obtain
tv that there must and will be a certain da.
predation in tbe value of gold, there seems to
be bat little doubt. if the accounts of col.
mason an j tbe row. 44 akaie of monterey”
so* to be relied spun, (sal then seems to be
oo reaooo to doubt tbetr veracity,) it appears
jhat one ma« can make about 18 e-day—
that ia mere than twelve time# the usual daily
average <*f labor in the united states. could
i this ratio be kept up (or a sufficient length of
time, nothing coukl pren at gold from becotn
i utg twelve times less valuable tl.an it mm
i instead of net* half eagle purchasing the bar
tel of floor, six whole cash's would scarcely
suffic.' lor that purpose. where, then, m lh«
advantage ul this gold discovery. thera i;
unite, 60 far as concents that metal as a me
diuin of exchange. it is of importance only
as gold can be used for many ornamental ant
useful purpxses.
in the meantime, it is said that at least one
hundred thousand adventurers are on then
1 j way to the land of promise, dreaming ol
'wealth without labor, and as much gold as
h they can carry for little more than the trouble
of lifling it. many of them are doomed to
be miserably disappointed. ere long, a pro
cess other loan that of w ashing it in a hand
sieve, will be required to get the gold. it
will have to be dug for in california, as else
where, long find deep. it will have to be se
parated from other and baser metals; capital
will be required for this; labor will be required
for ,it; and then the gold-seeker will have a
different story to relate about the gold regiou
of california. the probability is, that in
stead of realizing $lb a day, the laborer will
be tolerably well sati fied if he gets one
dollat.
o.ic good effect resulting from this emigra
tion to california, is, that the majority of the
emigrants being northern men, they may rea
-1 sonably be expected to hold northern views
on the subject of slavery. their influence
will thetefore be used for the exclusion of
slavery from that leiritory. if this result
follows in consequence of the emigration
j thither, who, that is not himself a slavehuld
er, and an enemy to his race, but will rejoice
that the fortunate discovery has been made?
were the dmstets and disappointments at
tending them, a thousand times greater than
even those who indulge the most gloomy ap
prehensions anticipate, will not such a glori
ous triumph of right over w rong be an ample
recompense? having a firm faith in the dispo
sition of events by an unerring, over-ruling
providence, we feel persuaded that this also,
with all other things, wi.l hasten onward his
purposes of wisdom and beneficence for the
sinning but not forsaken family of man.—j.d.
mrs. swishelm, the editor of the pitts
burgh saturday visiter, received one vote for
5 congress, at the late election, and says she
would have received more, had she been reg
ularly nominated.” she has resolved that
next year she will be a candidate.
i
suffrage convention at harrisburg*
j we clip this first note of the proceeding?
1 of the suffrage convention held last wpek in
harrisburg, pennsylvania, from the phila
delphia republic, and hope in our next papet
1 to give a longer account of these interesting
proceedings. the convention have passed a
resolution to publish their proceedings with
debates entire. the resolutions are as fol
i lows:
1 resolved, that the legitimate object of
i this convention is to petition the legislature
j for a repeal of the word white" from the
'third article of the constitution of pennsyl
vania.
resolved, that the people of pennsylvania,
.by sanctioning the disfranchisement of her
i colored citizens, have violated the creed' pf
their republican faith and brought dishonor on
their principles, and degradation, privation
|and wrong on those whom they have victim
i ized.
rfesolved, that the successful prosecution
'of a cause depends much upon the form and
manner of our advocacy, the character and
wisdom of oui measures, the zeal and energy
of individual action, and demands that we
isdue an address to the voters of pennsylvania
—also an address to the colored citizens, re
questing them to make their rule of conduct
such an shall successfully vindicate out right
to the enjoyment of citizenship.
resolved, that each delegation circulate
-petitions as soon as practicable in the different
counties, to obtain signers among the citizens
1 to be presented to the legislature of this state,
praying for erasing the word "white" front
the constitution.
resolved, that a committee of seven be ap
pointed to prepare an address to the voters of
the commonwealth of pennsylvania, in behalf
of universal suffrage.
i report of the postma3ter general.—
the following is a brief synopsis
the post office revenue tinder the reduced 1
i rates is rapidlv increasing, and amounted dur
ing the last fiscal year to $4,471,077; ex
ceeding the annual average of the nine years
immediately preceeding the passage of the
reducing act, $0,453, and exceeding the
revenue of the year immediately preceding
the last, $425,184.
the letter postage amounted to $3,550,304.
[exceeding that of the previousyear $295,791.
the newspaper postage amounted to $767,
331, being an increase of $124,174.
the rejjirt next proceeds to set forth the
condition and operations of the department in
i relation to the steamer mail service.
among the most prominent recummenda
tions which it sets forth, are these to
make the rate of postage uniform for letters
at 5 cents the half ounce for newspapers at
1 cent the ounce; for periodtcrls, 2 cents the
ounce and fui foreign letters, 15 cents the
half ounce the total abolition of the franking
privilege the pre-payment of ail mail matter. 1
and, lastly, a change in -the tenure of the
office of the p- stmaster general, with a view
of removing the opinion which exists, that aai
at present constituted the post office depart-]
mtnt is used by politicians at the-seat of gov-,
eminent with the view of promoting party i
jjbrposea and party organizations.
frances kemrle butler.—the anti-
slavery standard says, "it is notorious in
philadelphia that one of the cause of difficul
ty between mr and mrs. butler was he fear
less expression of anu-slavery feeling, and
her refusal to reside on s slave plantation
owned by her fentsband in virginia. no deci
sion is yet had in the case
a question.—lf rnen can earn $lb per
fay in california, how will it he possible to
keep congress together at $8 per day
i hronotyje.
later from africa.—the british brig
bream arrived yesterday ft*<m sierra leone,
hßviog l’ft en the ist nit. mr. ketrhum, her
supercargo, informs of the capture of four
slavers, all brazilians, which were condemed
sad burnt at that place. one of the vessels,
a brig, prize to h. m. brig alert, had no boa id
when csptur<d 500 slaves. the srhonnet
water witch had 472. the brig sea lark
581. a spanish schooner, among the oum
bet, had not yet received her cargo.
c 7 it ts said that a bitter feud has sprang i
up between ab>4t lawrence, tbe great bos-,
ton cotton lord, and daniel webster-and
that tbe former is scheming la prevent the!
latter from receiving any appointment in om
zack’s cabinet. if this is so, some rich de
♦elopmeots may be looked lor between this
and the foorth of maieh next—pci haps tj
re-enactment of the tragedy of the kilkenny
cm*.— qmttr <m.
to the friend* of justice and hi.
■tali?
you, have doubtless, read the appeal of the
committee anointed in the ease of capi.'s
drayton and sayers, imprisoned at wa»fchr>g
tnn—whose ease is now be n» argued before
c thenrcolt court of the l nned state?, in the
district of columbia, on an appeal for a new
trial— which appeared tn the public journal*
*ast week. the i nportaoeo of th*t case re*
quires an immediate and generous response
from every friend of od government, justice
i and humanity. the committee are now se\-
er.il hundred dollars in at rears, and the ex
penses are still accumulating. they cannot
meet the draft? that are being made upon them
•n|p*ws immediate aid be rendered. they
have requested me to raise the requisite
amount as soon ns possible. it will take quite
too lung t'*»r me to do it by individual applies'
tion, or vtsi.ing towns and taking collection*.
in view of this pressing emergency and to
save the ex pence of collecting so laigo
a sum as is needl'd, will not the generous
citizens of every tow n, where this appeal is
read, take measures at once to forward such
an amount as their circumstance* will allow,
and the importance of this case requires.
as this is not a patty question, it is hopd
that all of every party and sect, wtllcheprfultv
contribute. it appeal* to the lovers of hu.
manity, justice, good government, the hono
j ofoui common countiy, and of christianity.
will you send in your money to mr, j. p
blanchard, no. 13 purchase street, or to the
undersigned at the office of s. e. sewall, esq.
no 16 washington street, boston, ami not
wait for me to come after it.
remember it i» wanted now, and if a!l w ill
act at once the committee will be relieved.
editor* favorable to the cause of humanity
and justice are requested to contribute by giv.
ing this an insertion in their columns.
in behalf of the committee,
el. cummings, agent.
a remarkable book.—one of the moat re.
markable novelties of the season—say the
boston papers—will be a work purporting to
be the diary of a young girl residing in the
colony of massachusetts during a length of
time commencing w <ch the year 1678. some
of the leaves from this diary have appeared in
the columns of the natiunal*era, published at
washington, where they have attracted grea t
attention, for their beauty of style and the
graphic pictures they piescnl of every day life
at an early period in new england. the ed
itor of the boston transcript has had a glanco
at the proof-sheets, from which he makes the
following extract.
“ipswich, near agawam, may ye 12th, 167 k
“we set out day before yesterday on a
journey to newberry. o .r route on
the first day lay through the woods and
along the borders of great marshes, and mea
dows on the sea shore. we came to lmno
at night, and stopped at the house ol a kina*
man of robert pike’s—a man of substance
and note in that settlement. we were tired
and hungry, and the supper of warm indian
bread and sweet milk relished quite as well
as any 1 ever ate in the old countrie. the
next day we went on ovet a rough road to
wenhara. through salem, which is quite a
pleasant town. here we stopped until this
morning, when we again mounted our horses,
a„d reached this place after a smart ride of.
three hours. the weather in the morning
was w'arin and soft as our summer davs at
home and as we rode through the woods,
where the young leaves were fluttering, and
the white blossoms of the wind-flowers and
i h e blue violets, and the yellow blooming of
the cowslips in the low grounds, weio
!*een on either hand, and the birds all the tin e
i making a great and pleasing melody in the
blanches, i was glad of heart as a chi d. and
thought if my beloved friends anti cousin ul
i i v,!r were only wfth us, i could never wian to
i leave so fair a countrie.’’
___
prospectus of may’s miscellanies.—
l. 11. hall, ot syracuse, n. y., proposes
to publish a volume of the miscellaneous
writings of rev. samuel j. may. it will
contain a selection from those that have from
j time to time appeared in various periodicals,
together with many that have not before been
published, on education, temperance, war,
slavery, the treatment of criminalsj and also
discourses on a variety of theological and
j moral subjects.
the whole will make a volume of 450 oi
500 pages duodecimo, handsomely printed or.
1 paper, and neatly bound in figured mui
im. price, 1,00.
i tie work will bo put to press early in
january next, provided the number of sub
scribers shall warrant the undertaking.
the prospectus of a new paper, to be
called “the republican,” is published in
the columns of the charter oak, hartford,
conn., and is intended to be the organ of the
free soil party in that state. the prospec
tus says:
the republican is designed to sustain the
principles of the free soil movement—to b«
the advocate of such political reforms as the
times appear to demand—the honest exponent
of the sentiment of the north, and the de
fender of its interests.”
this new exponent of free soil politics
will be under the able management of wil
liam h. burleigh, now editor of the charter
oak which psper will be diacontinued. the
republican will doubtless be a firm opponcut
of slavery and lire slave-power and as such,
has our best wishes.
a comparison.—western virginia con
tains 38,500 square miles; western pennsyl
vania contains 33,000 square miles balai.c*.
in favor of virginia 5500 square miles.
in 1830 western virginia bad 378,000 in
habitants, or abnftt nine and a half to the
square mile. at the same time wesitrr.
pennsylvania had 503,000 inhabitants, or is
in the square mile. in 1840 western vir
ginia contained 432.000 inhabitants, and
western pennsylvania 815,000. virginia in
ten years gaining one and a half to the square
mile, and pennsylvania about seven.
geofegieal surveys of the two states proo
that the soil ol estern virginia is b« iter
than that ot pennaylvama, and miners) wealth
more abundant. the climate of virginia
unsurpassed by any in the fnioo, both for
health ai d productiveness. the hills are r.ot
weep, and the navigable watett of the
state as numerous and available. what cause*
the difference whttimg v«,) times.
the e axe question* whir h refecting nxm
are beginning to ask in the slave*. there is of
course, but one answer to it, and this lies
plain upon the surface. in pennaylvama it
ta honorable to labor, in virginia it is degrad
ing.—free. jour.
it ia said, mr. c’albouu’a alternative to pom*
adjustment of the slavery question, will be
southern convention, to |ro(one for a
dntwaiof the southern state*, to i body from
the union, upon the paaaai* of any law re*
kittling slavery ta use uuob.commtmkatione.
('fliklin. ohio, dec. 7ih, 18-48
\um» editors you will pardon rat
a t mv min.fth'n- my only apology for m
ir ,g t i*ih« publication of a idler from rev
hiram wilson, in your paper of nov. bth
1848. in retding thia letter, 1 was reminds
of oeriam resolution*, published in the otwrln
evangelist of october i3lh. 1847, ovrr th«
mg.iaturo of hamilton hill, ontrucr and black
cr than which, no resolution* were ever cun
meted out of hade*.”
as the star after which your paper i
named, has given light to the benighted nm
flying bondman, in his dark, uocerta n an
perilous path to british freedom, so may ai
answer to my inquiries by hi* teacher am
guidi, give light to their fnends, should the;
find a place in your sacredly-knit fuvr-corncrti
and heavenly-let-dawn sheet,in which i some
tunes find four-footed beasts snd ereepings.
1 am much pleased with brother w ilvon i
letter in the mam, and think he is on th<
whole, as near right as others who hav<
written respecting our people in canada.
truly sympathize with him in his necessity
aad want of friends, il 1 do not in hi* pres
ent position snd effort*. i hope he may fim
a support, but in his own words, not ina“det
of thieve*-*' ah, consistency, thou an t
jewel, but truth is a pearl sel om found by iht
light of dairn. i don’t mean lo l*e u d r
stood a* accusing br. v\ ilson of wilfully tell
ing an untruth, but ho docs, in the letter re
ferred to, misrepresent ihe doings at dawn.
the institution, hitherto, has been iht
curse of our people in canada. this 1 say
without the fear of contradiction irom a ie
opectable source and what i say, four-fifths
of the colored people there will say.
but i must corne to the inquiries. ist.—-
will br. wilson tell us why he has united
again with this institution, after rutting hi*
connection wall it, because of it* prodigality
and mismanagement 1 2d. ifotv much money,
clothing, bedding, &c., have been received ai
dawn since its commencement 7 3. how
much of these things have been givpn to tin
teachers and missionaries in f anada 4. how
many necessitous females and persona have
been gratuitously supplied with clothing, bed
ding, &c, by the executive committee til the
dawn operation, in the last five years? 5.
what kind of instructions are the ignoram
receiving at dawn, by whom is it, and how
much of it, and how often is it given? 6
what winters were they when the institutin'
was” thronged” with scholars,and wheredu
.bey come from 1 7. llow many student
have boarded at the institution each white;
since its commencement, and how much mone*
did they pay for it 8. were the scholars o.
dawn compelled to leave in the summer, oi
did they choose” to gooff and go to work
when there was a school opened for them?—
0. 11a* not the institution been going dow n fo
nearly three years? 10. is not all its clearo
land now rented out to be cultivated, not lu,
the benefit of the school? 11. have tin
trustees taken any action on ihe subject o
educating the poor orpli-n s, or is it the men
suggestion which i n.a e tome three yeai.-
ago to some of them to do so 12. v\ hat it
the proof that the work at dawn is undo
no sectarian auspices” 13. how many col
ored settlements, churches and schools ha
br. wilson visited w ithin the last three yeai
in canada 1 14. how new is the dawn sei
tlenient 15. how many have moved in i
within the last three years, and are they sai
isfied if*. what evidence has br. wilto
that the managers of the dawn school wo
do better than they have done heirtotbre- 7
these things the public have a right to knot
before it can consistently give further suppott
can it know them 1 .shall it know them 1
dare the truth be told respecting them 1 w*
shall wait to see before wo say any more.
w. p. newman.
p. s.—since writing the above, i hav.
received a letter from sister fidelia c. brooks
at the queen’s bush, c. w., begging f»>
help to pay for her school-house, and to sa\
it from being sold on the ist of january
1819, to pay the wotkmen.
there is not a more worthy missionary ii
the world than sister brooks, and but few
who are as ureful, and whose present pro*
pms for doing good are so fair as lu-rs. ii
school is large and flourishing, and her li- i.
of labor a settlement of poor colored peopl*
numbering 1500. she wants 8100 to sat
her school-house. shall she have it win
will say, lord, how much shall 7 give 7
w. p. n.
w ill the ram’s horn, the emancipator
the contributor, the obetlin evangelist, am
the american missionary please publish thn
;u*d the answer to it, and oblige the chtisiiui
public!
hebron, n. v., dec. 9, 1844.
dear brother douglass: —though per
serially unknown to you. 1 take the liberty ol
•ending you a line, requesting of you a favor.
as an agent of the •baptist free mi>sim
society,! am endeavoring to ca l the-attentim
of baptists to the cherokee slaveholdiug
baptist churches.
1 remember hearing brother henry bib!
make some remarks in his lecture in the grea
anti-slavery meeting in chicago, some two oi
three years since, respecting the tlaveholdinp
professors in that nation. will you pleas*
inform him of my desire to obtain any facts it
hi" possession or knowledge in legard to th
baptist chinches in the cherokee country—
ri number oli slaveholders in those chuiche
-he number of slaves held—preaching o
m asionarie* m regard to this question, am
wi.atevcr ols.e may throw light upon the mat
t*r. lam yours for christ’s suffering metu
edward mathews.
victor, dec. 11, 1848.
f menu docglass when can you corru
again to ictor 7 there arc many here whe
would like to bear you, ami there are some
(very pious ones) who uoumn’r hear yon a ,y.
way their hoiy sensibilities ;re shocked
at your exposure „f he earning hypocrisy of
pro-alavery and nme-aervmg p rie su, anh heir
glowing patnotum revolt* at y our truthful de
nunciations of vlaveholcers, and the crime o«
/voting tot such tnen for civil office. the
trouble with these men it, would they con
fess the truth, in so saying, thou repioech
eat ua eleo!” but never mind these, if they
choose topractise iuiquity, ehui reproof, and
•brink from investifmion, let them stay ai
ko»a— we cao get a bouas-full without them.
though the presbyterian and methods:
ehurehcs am shut sgziart lhc*,ranae of th»
slate, the l*ntvetsal»t meeting-h* ose can k
had at any tim*. a society meet t»g w*
held in the presbttenao church last week.—
1 application was made for the use
now and then, for temperance and ami-wbren
meetings. it would hatre amused you to hat*
h heard the rbat—ti e ros and ion a cn tuu
occasion. it could not be called a debate, l««
it was without form or order. the cbairmai
was entirely ignorant of the duties of hi
ffice, and -bowed himself the most iou
person present. hen a motion was mad
and seconded, to open the house for tcinpet
t artee and anti-slavery meeting-, instead u
potting the question, or submitting it for dt
i nate, he instantly commenced, while sittingii
i his cha.r, and in the meet authoritative man
ser. to declare his decided opposition to thr
passage of such a leaolution. he wosk
not have \ub house opened for anti-slaver i
meetings any way." some were willing
the house should be opened for tcmperane<
meetings a part of the time, if other house
would oj>en their doors a part of the time!—
mmy were opposed to the use of the lioum
for any other than religious purposes, as it
j would soil the carpets thus making the rags
under loot of more consequet cc thai in
cawse of ughteousness and humanity. the_\
r fused to pass any vote on the subject, break
i 'g up in confusion, and staving off ihe whole
matter hy an abrupt motion to a ijourn. it
i was altogether a very pious affair. tit
presiding officer had just been guilty of votin',
for thal human butcher and slaveholder, gen.
zachary taylor, and that too, after having
declared, but a short time previously, that he
would suffer his right arm to fall from hi
shoulder, before he would ever again vote foi
a slaveholder.
about the first person elected, and to the
most important office, was a man who owns
and receives the rent of a liquor house. o
etnpora! o mores! this same man lias been
a liberty man—a proffs-ed friend of freedom.
another one of the newly-appointed trustees,
who has also been a liberty man, was willing
the house should be open lor temperance, but
not for anti-slavery. he said, .-.s a man h<
was in favor of opt ning the house for anti
slaverv meetings, but as a trust e, he was op
posed to it—thus proving lalse to his profes
sions, and, for the sake of the paltry office in
a pro-slavery church, stultifying himself, and
shutting out the cause of the oor and op
pressed.
notwithstanding the plain commands ol
god—“ make unto yourselves righteoua ru
iers""—“ he that ruleth over man must be
just, ruling in the fear of god,” many of the
leading members in all these professed chris
j lian churches, voted for a man w hose i fe has
i been devoted to shedding human blood, and
j who now lives on ihe- unpaid labor of slaves!
tih not strange. you understand why anti
slavery is shut out of these meeting-houses.—
it is not a pleasant task to expose inconsist
ency and hypocrisy, but it is a duty that we
owe to truth and the cause of humanity and
i speak not of these tilings but with feelings
of deep regret that they are so.
notwithstanding these votes for taylor,
this town ga\e 40 majority for free soil.—
cass had 5 votes, and getrit smith 7.
the hunkers had a public meeting at one
if our liquoring houses a few days previous
o the election. it continued till late in the
light, and broke up in a regular row-de-dnvv.
the gentlemen orators from canandaigua,
t is said, were so drunk or crazy, or perhaps
»oth, that instead of taking the toad eastward
oward.s home, they blundered up tha hill
i lorthward into the yard of the umversalist
neeting-house! they finally lured a man,
md gave him $6 to take them to canandaigua
—lo miles.
we have three licensed dram-houses in our
title midst, and of eouise drunkenness
(bounds. we have a temperance meeting to
light to begin with. when will you come
tnd address the people on the subject ef sla
very’ respectfully yours,
g. w. c.
from our own correspondent.
london, nov. 24, 1848.
the fete of the inauguration of the new
french constitution took place in paris, on
sunday, nov. 12th, and happily concluded
j without the occurrence of accidents or disor
er. the demonstration of external pomp
t tppearsto have hpen great but the weather
i wa- extremely unfavorable—a heavy tail ol
snow ushered in the glorious day—so that
the spirits of the people were damped, and
‘here was little or no enthusiasm apparent,
i prince louis napoleon absented himsell
j trotn paris, to avoid being mixed up, person
ally, in any manifestation or movement which
might occur. the electoral struggle between
him and cavaignac, has commenced in gc»od
earnest. the journal des dcbots has de
flared for ihe latter; whilst the constitution
i nel adtieres to louts napoleon. fyiw ?t
will end,’ stys the times’ correspondent,
no man pretends to be able to predict; but
j you are doomed to hear from day to day, ol
miugues and worse, in ihe interests of tht
i contending parties. already the adherents ol
i prince louis napoleon complain loudly of the
1 proceedings of the partizans of general ca
vaigme. the hope of the bonapartiats
j rests chiefly on the remembrance retained by
he people of the grandenr of the empire,
*nd on their afll-ctinn fur the memory of then
d«»l. the government is doing all tn its
1 power to’counteract this feeling; and a report
;a hi circulation that louts napoleon is insane,
f which is said to have injured him in sotn<
quarters. on the other hand, the excess ot
zeal, and the accompanying imprudence, to
some of cavatgnac's panitans, tend gieatiy
to damage his cause and although he is no
peisonally accountable for the many indefen
sible manofuvres practised, he cannot fight hi
own battles, and is compelled to resign him
self to the will of others. the address lateh
issued by cavaignac to “the civil and militan
functionaries of france, announcing the fac.
that the labors of the national assembly or,
the republican constitution are completed, k
characterized by wisdom and discretion, am
j 1
it seems desirable for the good of the countn
that he may be elected president. neithc!
lamartine nor ledru roilm have retig ru-c
their candidateahip for the office. m. marram
u» appointed president of the assembly for un
month ensuing.
in my last, i informed you of the capitula
uon of vieons. from the 85tb of oct. unu
night of tbs 31st, when that event _oe-
curred, a fierce and continuous conflict 100
place, in which two hmidred thousand men
.rere engaged. two thousand men are said
|:u hare been killed. the troops entered the
j srity just to tune to •a'fe the imperial palace,
with it* various eollectioos of art f from brine
wirnt to the ground by the rebels. mania'
aw has been proclaimed in the capital, an i
..any leaders of the revolt hate been shot.—
\rtkmig th*»e was robert blum, of leipetc.a
nember of ihe german national assembly at
frankfoit,'who, previous to his execution,
was tried by court martial. the other no.
nerau* executions have scarcely been noticed;
nit every one is engrossed with the kntener
xectiled on blum, and gloomy apprehension*
i pervade the minds of the people. although
the rebellion is crushed for the present, n*
j conciliatory measure* have been adopted by
the victors and tt seems probable that event*
ually the government will toe the course oi
vengeance they arc now pursuing as blum
was a member of the german parliament, it
is expected that violent discussions will arise
on the privileges of that assembly, and a t
j .severe vote of censure is expected from frank-=
fort against prince windischgratx, for order
ing the execution of one of its members.—
com.-uiasionera of inquiry have already beer,
sent thence to tenna. the breach betweei
austria and germany seems widening; and a
recent vole on certain questions of the consti
tution, has done a good deal towards its in*
crease. “it forces'’ (says a correspondent ol
one of our daily papers) the austrian era
jktut to come fbnvatd, and say chat ac \v%u bt
—a prince under the majesty of the genqan j
empire, or an independent monarch of his j
sclavonic races. it compels the german
austrians to make their choice between a
germanic and a sclavonic empite.” this
vote is deemed necessary to the well-being oi
the newly established german empire, as it
would be ruinous for it to become involved in
the maqyar and sclavonic quarrel of austria.
the secession of austria from germany,
ems almost certain. berlin has been in a
state of semi-revolution and revolt for some
time pa-t, owing principally to the impru
dence of the king ol prussia, in commission
ing count von brandenberg (one of the ab
sol utist regime) to form a ministry, and in re
solving to remove the seal of government from
berlin to brand, rburg. a proclamation was
issued, commanding the dissolution of the
burgher guard, which spread consternation
through the city then berlin was declared to
be in a slate of siege, and martial law was en
forced. the king appears to have been ob- j
stinate and indiscreet, and the patriots and j
democrats determined. the former express-}
is a desire to carry out the principles of the j
new constitution. but can he he trusted
the last accounts from berlin appear to say, j
that all means of resistance have been retnov- j
ed from the capital, and that ninety per cent,
of the arms of the civic guard have been sur
rendered. if anarchy be rightly suppressed,
and the monarch keeps his word in all integri- 1
ty, and establishes the constitution, we may
hope that brighter days will before long dawn j
on prussia.
home news next time. s. p. q. r.
philadelphia, dec. 16, 1848.
messrs. editors from a perusal of
your paper, 1 find you have no direct news
from this city. if agreeable to you, i w.u
drop you an item every week, by which you
may learn how mattets progress here.
the anti-slavery feeling is still alive
among our people. friend delany lectured
on monday evening at brick wesley church,
i befotc the young men’s anti-slavery so
ciety. i was not piesent, but learned they
had a refreshing time.
the delegates by this time have completed
their business at hairisburg. philadelphia
did not do her part this tune, so far as the
raising of means to defray the expenses of the
j delegates was concerned. had it not been
for the indefatigable exertions of the ladies,
together with a few societies, many of the
delegates would have been obliged to remain at
home.
the ladies are getting up a monster fair,
to come off during the holidays, to be held at
f the philadelphia institute. no doubt it will
be something rich, foi the females are very
zealous when they put their heads together.
the quarrel in bethel hurch, between the
trustees and elders, is not yet settled, having
been thrown into court. the grand jury, a
few days since, found a true bill against both
patties. how the matter w ill end, remains to
be seen. palmetto.
legislative proceedings is south caro
lina.—the following resolutions have been
introduced into the senate of south carolina,
by the honorable joseph a. black
1. resolved, that there is good reason to
apprehend that it is the deliberate intention ot
j ihe people of the northern states of this
union, to emth»dy into any bill which any be
passed by cougr-ss, organizing territorial
i governments for new mexico and aiiforma,
a provnrion for excluding slavery from said
territory.
‘j. resolved, that we would regard the
passage of 6uch a law by congress, as a gross
violation of th j federal compact, an outrage
up*m the rights of the southern states, and a
i wanton undisguised insult; and that a sub
mission would be degrading and infamous.
3. resolved, thst the state of south caro
lina never will, in any contingency, or undet
any circumstances, submit to any law passed
bv congress bv which slavery shall be exclu
ded from any territory belonging to this gov
eminent, and lying south of the parallel ol
j ihnty-six degrees, thirty minutes north lali-
i*ude.
4. received, that in the event of the jpaa
-age of such a law by congress, that llie gov
ernor of this state, lor toe time being, con
vene the legislature thereof immediately, in
t ordei that such action may be taken as shall
lie deemed necessary and proper.
5. resolved, that the state of south caro
lina earnestly invites the attention of her sis
j ipr states of the south to this important sub-
j j»rt, and is ready to meet aud consult with
1 them, at such time and in such manner as may
be deemed advisable, as to the heat and must
effectual mode of avoiding or resisting the dan
gers with which we are, in common, threat
ened.

the oldest voter in america—mr.
1 hughes a revolutionary saidiet in the io7ib
j .ear of his age, was taken to the polls in
rockbridge co. vs., at the late electing by
1 a friend in a carriage drawn by fear duo
horses.
cholera. we are requested to stats that
d c. dt hcomse's cure and preventiva ol
choi ra is for snla tl the principal drug
st ires i i rochesur.
hrirr e. le»b
during the month of o.fot*»r last, term
of scientific leetoie? vis «m»vrred in fb»
city by dt. hrsmt h. under lb*
auspices of so a-w ciniiao of colored ritfim*.
who eagerly improved the opponunitv of lis
tening to one who, though not boasting of
anglo-saxon blood, had by dint of applica
tor] qualified himself to impart a knowledge
of phrenology, mesmerism, and other inter
sting branches of science; with the wo
oriner he evinced a famihauty both m the
lecture room and the social circle at core gra
tifying and instructive. while in liverpool,
t combination of circumstances (the details
»f which were narrated in hts introductory)
resulted in hi? secuiing the valmble aid ot
dr. ferguson, who generously tendered b:ui
facilities for prosecuting bis medical studies,
suce his return to this country, dr. lewis
its resided in michigan, in many parts oi
which state, he has lectured on the sciences
itid on many topics of moral reform, anti
slavery, temperance, capital punishment,
women's rights, natural and revealed religion.
ac. his visit to rochester was opportune
tor a literary society being in contemplation,
nis mental feasts created an impetus which ii
is fondly hoped may be no false criterion by
which to judge the future; for though the
‘hurts put forth have not yet proved triumph
ant, the germ, we trust, is destined to become
i bud of much beauty, by assiduous cutiva
iion to expand into a tree of knowledge, from
which the aspiiants for improvement and ele
vation may pluck the frwtof more value than
u bies.
as dr. lewis is expected soon to be in
rochester, a course of lectures may be anti
cipated, which should be patronim'd bv the
citizens generally.
at the termination of the series alluded to,
the following tribute was concurred in, and
published in the advertiser and american of
this city
resolved, that we gratefully appreciate the
ental and moral lessons tendered us by our
friend and brother, dr. henry e. lewis, oi
michigan, through the medium of his lectures
>n phrenology and mesmerism, and would
‘heerfully commend his efforts to the favor
»ble attention of all votaries of science and
reform.
rochester, dec. 19, 18*18. w.c.n.
the levelling ace. —fred douglass, a
runaway negro who has been made a great
man in the north, and is ed tor of a news
paper somewhere in massachusetts, has come
out in an art cl.• abusive of the hon. robert
c. winihrop, whom he calls a ‘cetnpromis
ive creature!’ a state ofs: ciety which gives
countenance to such ‘large liberty’ as this,
must be a very interesting one indeed it is
certainly quite ‘progressive’ enough for the
uost radical taste in the country—winches
ter, va. repvblican.
icpdouglass’s ‘north star’ is printed a
rochester, new’ york. massachusetts wasn't
big enough for fred to swing in. —ohcc
branch.
hon. j. g. palfrey. —we hold to doing
jusiice to every man, we consider mr. pal
frey's radical abolitionism dangerous— but he
is evidently a high-minded aud honest m in.
ho has lived up to his professed anti-slavery
principles. he is not a man of any very con
siderable property—the value of'his slaves
whom he liberated was at least $lo,ooo in
new orleans. he not only freed them, but
wtdt himself to louisiana, and brought them
to the state of massachusetts, and provided
them with situations where they could earn
their living.
this is widely different from the course ol
that rabid brawler, win. lloyd garrison
we once some fifteen years since, heard him
say he would sooner give a dollar to help a
sick horse than pay one cent to buy the free
dom of a negro slave. garrison, like the old
pharisaical hypocrites, has always been put
iing heavy burdens on the people, w hilst lie
will not sacrifice one red cent to free the
slave.
we must, therefore, judging by the men’s
works, sav, that whatever are his errors, pro
fessor palfrey is an honest man while, by the
same god-appointed rule, garrison is a con
temptible hypocrite, a misanthrope, in the
worst sense of that wor olive
branch.
south carolina. —the richmond whig’
*n noticing the south carolina threat of kick
ing up a row, says
again we say let her secede hut let he
also stop talking about it. she has done n<i
thing but talk, talk, talk, for twenty years
and she has not yet seceded. let her do it a
once, and be done with it.
convention at harrisburg. —our town
is toll ot colored citizens, delegates from dif
ferent pails of who have assembled
obedient to a call for a state convention to tre
held to-morrow w ith a view of petitioning the
legislature to extend them the rights that are
guaranteed to other citizens, and with an ulti
mate design of obtaining the elective fran
chise. some foity delegates are now in town
aud by the morning cars, an addition equal to
a hundred of this oppressed people wdl meet
in council to deliberate tib best course to pir
sue by which their s<jctal, inoral, and political
condition can be ameliorated and advanced.
the proeedings of th *ir convention 1 will
endeavor to forward you, as several of the
delegaies are men of enlarged view s and un
doubted tilen'.— c'orr. phil. republic.
prior foster. —james g. king, employ
ed hi the ocean mdl, newbury port, writes
to us for information res[»eciiiig a colored nun,
j going by the name of prior filter, general
1 agent of the woodstock manual labor
company in michigan,’ wbo has lately vtsi
ted that town, and collected «>f the optatives
j m that mill about filteeo dollars. alter he
had gone, some of the girl* said that he urged
them to change their names, and go with
him,’ which mr. king justly considers a very
suspicious and highly repreh risible act. w e
think »o too. we have never had say con
fidence in mr. foster, or the feasibility of his
manual lab** scheme; and though he ha*
contrived, by his adroitness, to obtain certi
ficate* and liberal donations ttom well-known
friend* of the colored p«»pulaiiod, we ire
satisfied that he ought not to be encouraged
for at least six years, («td how much longer,
we do oot know,) be hlbeeo scouring the
country, with untiring pefieverance and
great pecuniary suedfess, having collected
several thousand dollars—but, to what pur
pose, we have yet to be convinced.— ltberalar
no comhwmis* —mr. poik recommends
aod urges the adoption of the missouri line
oo the slave question. we arc sick—tired—
of the words compromise—harmony of the
union. if «*or übhjo cannot be pres sed,
without extending sial lr\ all over cre
ation to propitiate ibe breeder*, and buyers,
and planters of the free latior hating south,
then nb time that it was blown uuo as many
frag menu, as there arc particles of gold-dust
m the territory we, by rubbery acquired of
mexico no slaves in those tomes. no
human chattels in that land. it
aow free— *i nwwtin free- no
compromise' no concession is
favor of slavery. freedom or
dissolution ibe blustering, bullying
*mth, m*y bs*e its psufrrtnca. iff*-'
relations to the government
the difference between citizens and subjects
all citizens are subjects of the gov
ernment under which they lire; but ah
subjects are not citizens. a citizen i*
one clothed with certain political pow
ers and responsibilities. a mere sub
let is only a human being under the
control of government. every govern
inent assumes the right to subject al
arsons residing on its territory to it*
laws, and to compel subjection by force,
tf necessary. hence, women, minors,
tliens, ac., are not citizens in the poli
ical sense of the word—though they
<re all subjects. properly speaking,
(hen, a citizen of the united states t
i man who claims the right to vote and
nold office in the government. he is a
voluntary covenanting party to the fed
eral constitution, and a co-governor oi
the nation. he consents and oblige*
limself to the constitution aa the rule
»f his conduct in all governmental mat
ters. his hand aod seal his most
solemn pledge of fidelity—are virtually
affixed to the great compact. he is,
therefore, morally responsible for the
government, and all its constitutional
joings.
but a mere subject of the govern
nent is not a co-governor. he is not
m the political league. he is not a
consenting party to the constitution.—
rle is not one of the sovereigns; and
*f course he is morally responsibly foi
;he government and its doings no far
ther than he approves of them! yet
iis person and property are subject to
cue government. in tine, he is*a sub
ject—not a co-goveming citizen.
we of the practical christian com
munion hold that all christians ought to
taud in the relation of subjects only to
lie government uuder which they hap
>en to live, unless that government, in
ts constitution and laws, be radically a
christian government, according to the
principles declared in the sermon on
the mount; which no existing national
government is. they have, therefore,
absolved themselves from the engage
ments, obligations and responsibility ol
citizens, and unequivocally assumed the
relation of mere subjects to the state
and united states government. so far
as the constitution, laws and political
usages of the land uphold war, slavery,
>r any other anti-christian practice,
diey meekly but boldly protest against
them, and throw off ail responsibility
for their results. they deny that they
are in covenant with the powers that
lie” to slay their fellow-men, or to rob
them of their property, or to hold them
in slavery, or to execute any legal pro
cess which sets at naught the divine in
junction—“ love your enemies, bless
ihein that curse you, do good to them
that hate you, and pray for them w/.ich
despitefully use and persecute you.”—
at the same time they acknowledge
government to be the ordinance of god
for the restraint of evil; that the worst
forms of it are better than absolute an
archy that they are forbidden to at
tempt changing it by any other means
than christianizing the public senti
ment; that they are bound to be peace
able subjects, so far as they can he such
without infidelity to that kingdom
which u not of this world;” and that
they are never to obstruct any of its
operations, however anti-christian, by
seditious conspiracies or carnal weap
ons. occupying this ground, they deny
that they are in any proper sense, uo
governmentists, or are opp ised to
wholesome laws or good order in socie
ty, or that they are in any respect dan
gerous to the state, otherwise than as
seeking, by unexceptionable means, its
renovation and conformity to true chris
tianity. they honor and commend all
that is evidently christian in the con
stitutio i, lawa, and proceedings of gov
ernment treat its functionaries with
due civility; conform to all its innocent
forms and prescriptions; avail them
selves of all its righteous privileges
pay cheerfully all its ordinary taxes;
promote all its unexceptionable methods
of improving the social conditibn of the
people; never oppose it except w’hen it
requires what god forbids, and then
only by just remonstrance, and patient
sufferance of its penalties.
from the chiutian citised.
america.
the bruised and burdened of every
clime have heard of america as the
land of the free. the wan and wretch
ed victim of capricious tyranny, ironed
u the flo >r of eastern dungeons, has
heard of america, and lifted his shack
led hands to god in prayer for one
iraught of that country’s air, which
vhoever breathes is free. the grey
leaded exile, banished from his native
<and, itis polish home, to the far, frozei,
solitudes of siberian wastes, has hearc
of america, and while, by the sickly
light of the pale moon, he waded back
to his dreary shelter beneath the shape
less drifts, he lias sighed for the pinion?-
of the swiit-winged dove to bear hitn t»
our shore, beyond the reach ol the ty
rant’s arm. the oppressed of every
name and nation, have heard of ameri
ca, as a kind of heaven, lying beyond
the jurisdiction of despotism, where the
wicked cease from troubling, where
every yoke is broken, and the captive is
free.
but these have only heard the melody
of its jubilees. they never listened to
the half-9m >thered wailings of despair,
which god hears both night and day
ascending to his throne from human bo
ngs, bought, beat and bound, in the
very capitol of this boasting nation.—
they never saw the shambles under the
shade of our great temple of
where human souls and
nies are bartered for the merest mer
chandize of the earth. they never
heard the suppressed moaning of the
little child, bought in its mother’s anus,
ind torn forever from her embrace.—
they never witnessed the father’s ago
ny, as he held oui his manacled band*
»o say a broken farewell to hit child
ren, as they were led away to some dis
tant, unknown scene of bondage. they
never fathomed the despair of tbeawitfe
er’s heart, when her late-weaned infant
was knocked off by the sboriff** ham
mer to seme stranger, who tore it from
her arm*. they never witnessid tbe
tr
unavailing anguish of tint moment,
when the strong ties tomnmtca will
the fibres of every human heart, wer*
torn asunder by the sons of thane wfcc
fought end fell for freedom. they nev
er mw how human nature, like a de
fenceless unmurmuring lamb, bled ot
the very steps of the capitol. while th<
appointed champions of liberty vreit
speaking long and loud of the sacred
ness of human rights. they nevei
witnessed the unavailing night sceaet
of this modern aceldama, where, foi
years of disgraceful history, bus
blood-redeemed roan, has been bailee
to the accursed tree of slavery undei
the very droppings of our great 'sanc
tuary of liberty; under the statue o
that goddess which, like a shamelea*
harlot disguised in the immeculate vest
ments of virtue, dares' stand upon the
pinnacle of that temple which oui
fathers built, and lift her brazen, un
blushing face to heaven, and say to met
and gods,“all men are free and equal.’
b.
reading.—coleridge tells us of foui
kinds of readers. the first, like tka
hour glass their reading, like um
sand, running in, and then out, an<
leaving not a vestige behind. tin
second, like the sponge, which imbibe!
everything, only to return it in the sanu
state, or perhaps dirtier. the third
like the jelly-bag, allows the pure t(
pass away, and keeping only the refust
and dregs; and the fourth, like th«
slaves in the mines of golconda, cart
ing aside all that is worthless, and re
taining only the diamonds and gems.—
see to it that you are of the latter class,
gathering riches from all your reading.
to this end do not read.
at random, indiscriminately. the
world is full of books, and a lifetime
would not suffice to read all, even i
they were good, which vast numbers oi
them are not. make, then, a selection
of your books, and be careful in making
it. touch not, if possible, a single
volume that is unworthy, trifling, oi
useless. seek first for the most im
portant subjects, and then for the best
works respecting them. be as careful
bf the books you read as of the com
pany you keep; for your habits and
character will be as much influenced
by the former as the latter. see to it
then, that both are good. and even ir
perusing good books—-for the best art
imperfect—imitate the fishermen spokei
of in the gospel, who, in drawing theii
nets full of all kinds of fishes, “gath
ered the good into vessels, but cast th<
bad away.”
ever have, also, some high and use
ful aim in reading. whatever yoi
read, have an object in reading it.—
know not only what, but why you read
read for the discipline of your intel
lect, the elevation of your taste, tin
extension of your knowledge, the im
provementof your heart, the regulatioi
of your conduct and life. read, tha
you may store up lessons of wisdom, t<
apply them to yourself; that you maj
follow every good, and avoid every evi
example, and thus daily become wiser
happier, better and more useful.—am
mess.
fresh air. —the celebrated dr
darwin was so impressed with the im
poitance of good air, that, being ver;
popular in the town of derby, once 01
a market day he mounted atub, an<
thus addressed the listening crowd
ye tnen of derby, fellow-citizens
attend to me i know you to be in
genious and industrious mechanics.
your exertions you procure for your
selves and families the necessaries o
life but if yon lose your health, tha
power of use to them must cease. thi:
truth all of you know but 1 fearsotm
of you do not understand how health ii
to be maintained in vigor—this thei
depends upon your brealhirg an uncon
taminated air for the purity of th<
air becomes destroyed where many ar<
collected together the effluvium frorr
the body corrupts it. keep open, then
the windows of your workshops, ant
soon as you rise open ail the window:
of your bediooms. inattention to thi:
advice, be assured, will bring disease:
on yourselves, and engender among
you the typhus fever, which is onlj
another name for fever, whicl
will carry off your wives and children
let me again repeat my serious advict
—open your windows to let in the ires!
air, at least once a day. remembei
what i say i speak now without a fee
i and can bgvp no other interest bu
you." m y •*w cc -'—joumo
of health.
i i.»
early disadvantages. i learnt
grammar,” says william cobbett,
when i was a private soldier on th»
pay of sixpence a day. thfe edge oi
my berth, or that of my guard-bed, wa:
my seat to study in; my knapsack ’wa>
my book-case, and a hit of board ivin*,
in my lap, was my writing-table. i ha!
no money to purchase candle or oil; ii
winter time rarely that i coult
get any light 4ut that of the fire, ate
only my turn even of that. to buy a
pen or sheet of paper, i was compelled
to forego some portion of food, thougl,
in a state of half starvation. i had n>
moment of time that i could call mv
own; and i had to read and write amic.
the talking, laughing, singing, whist
ling, and bawling of at least half
score of the most thoughtless of men;
and that, too, in hours of freedom from
all control. and i say, if i, under cir
cumstances like these, -could encouniei
and overcome the task, can there be, i.
the whole world, a youth who can fim
an excuse lor the'non-perfi^pance?’ 1
scotchmen and scotch music,
the following instance shows whai
scotch music will mak« a scotchman
do when out of bis own country:
a gentleman who was a first rate
performer of scotch music on the
violin, spent a winter in exeter, and oi
course soon became acquainted with
the musical dilletanti of the place.
diniug one day with a professor the
conversation turned upon scotch music,
and a wrong argument arose as to it*
bearing competition with foreign mo sic;
the scotchman, whom we shall for the
present designate the fh|dier, maiming
that, wbeo properly played, nsthiag
could excel it; the professor on um
other hand insisting that it vena only fit
for tha bnre-yardt* 7
i iv tell you what,* says the fiddler;
i’tf toy you a wagor of 45 that if a
patty of scotchmen can ho got together
i’d make them abed tear* one minute,
■iwg the next, and dancethe third.*
4 done/ »ay» the professor, 'and if
your music is capable of that, i will
oat only pay you the £5 with pleasure,
but will he convinced that it is the most
enlivening, pathetic, and best music in
the world.*
the difficulty arose as to getting an
opportunity for a trial. but this was
soon obviated by a third party inform
ing them that a number of young scotch
men dined annually at the old london
hotel, on the anniversary of burns’
birthday. this was a capital oppor
tunity for the fiddler; for these young
men, being principally rawboned, over
grown scotch lads, who had recently
left their own country to carry tea in
the neighborhood, were the vefry ones
upon whom he was sure to make a
kit 4
ah being now mranged, and the
utmost secrecy being agreed upon, the
eventful day was anxiously looked for.
at length it came, and the fiddler and
professor by an introduction to one of
the party, got an invitation to the din
ner. there were twelve altogether sat
down; and a right merry party they
soon became; for the whiskey toddy was
not spared when the memory of any of
scotia’s bards was toasted. the fid
dler was not long in perceiving that be
had got among a right musical set, and
he waited patiently till they were fit for
anything. at length he gave a wink
to the professor, who at once proposed
that bis friend should favor them with a
scotch tune on the violin,
‘capital, capital!* cried the whole
party.
the violin was brought, and all were
in breathless anxiety. the fiddler
chose for hia first tune, *herc’s a
health to them that's aiva,* and played
■t in the most solemn and pathetic man
ner.
‘that’s a waefu* tune,’ said a great,
big, raw-boned youth to his next neigh
bor.
*lt is that, sandy. there’s meikle
in that tune, man. it reminds me o'
ane that's gane jamie,’ at the same
time giving a deep sigh, and drawing
his hand over his long, gaunt face to
hide the tears which were trickling
down his cheeks.
the fiddler with his keen eye soon
perceived that before he got through
the second part of the tune he would
have them all in the same mood. he
therefore threw his whule soul into the
instrument, played the tune as he had
never done before; and as the last four
bars of the tune died away like a
distant echo there was not a dry cheek
amongst the company. now is the
time, thought the fiddler; and without
stopping a moment, struck up, in a
bold, vigorous style, 4 willie brew’d a
pecko’maut.' out went the hand
kerchiefs, away went the tears.
'chorus!' cried the fiddler; and in
an instant all struck up,
for \ve arc nae foa,* we’re pa that fou,’
but just a drappie in oure’e;
the cock mav c. aw, ihe day may daw,
but aye we’ll taste the barley hree.
the song ended, up struck the fiddler
in his best style, the reel of jenny
dang the weaver.'
4 hey, ye devil 9 ,4 cried sandy.
4 scotland forever!’ cried jamie; and
in an instant, tables, chairs and glasses
were scattered in all directions and the
whole party dancing and jumping like
madmen.
out ran the affrighted professor (for
he did not know wlmt might come next.)
up came the landlady with her terrified
train of inmates. but none durst enter
the room, the hurras and thumps on the
floor being so boisterous; aud it was
only upon the entry of a scotch trav
eler, who had just arrived and who
cried to the fiddler for any sake to stop,
that order was restored.
it is needless to say that the profes
sor paid his bet cheerfully and was fully
convinced of the effect of scotch music
when properly played and that the
landlady took care that the fiddler
never came into her house again on
burns’ anniversary dinner.
the rev. clesar otway, in his
recently published paper on “the
intellectuality of domestic animals,"
gives the following anecdote, which is
by far too good not to receive thc'ben
efit of a wider circulation: at the flour
mills of tubbera keena, nearclommel,
while in the possession of the late mr.
newbold, there was a goose, which, by
some accident, was left solitary, with
out mat# or offspring, gander or gos
lings. now it happened, as iu common,
i that the miller's wife bad set a number
eggs nndera hen, which iu due
fluv and of course the
time wepe incuua—r or »h
ducklings, as soon as they can— 1
ran with natural instinct to the water,
and the hen was in a sad pucker—her
maternity urging her to follow the
brood, and her selfishness disposing her
to keep on dry land. in the mean
while, up sailed the goose, and with a
noisy gabble, which certainly, (being
interpreted; meant, leave them to my
care, she swam up and down with the
ducklings; and when they were tired
with their aquatic excursion, she con
signed them to the care of the hen.—
the next morning down came again the
iucklings to the pond, and there was
'he goose waiting for them, and there
stood the hen in her great (lustration.—
on this occasion we are not at all sure
that th# goose invited the hen—ob
serving her maternal trouble—but it ii
a fact that she, being near the shore,
the hen jt/mped on her back, and there
»t, the ducklitfg swimming, and the
goose and hen after them, up and down
the pond. and this was not a aolitary
event: day after day the hen was seen
on board the gooee, attending the duck
lings up and down, in perfect content
edness and good humor numbers of
people coming to witnese the circum
stance, which continued until the duck
lings, coining to days df discretion, re
quired no longer the joint guardianship
of the goose and hen.
jh&
genius will never be neglected by
the public, unless it neglects itself; u
must not disdain the humble alliaoee of
industry. how can it expect encour
agement, unless its existence can be
manifested by performances the
sorest evidence of superior talent is,
that it force# itself in spite
of advene circumstances, that it rushes
a road where it finds bom.

sltotthwmtnte.
lapertafct to finen*
ide's pim wheel cantor mad ww ow
plow. the faming
ik.. letters p*r«* tare «-f
-»mh*r for m* rem* “p uft
stmt** udnudkmof fitl»c^ltit*to«i,
*n improvement so greet
ibe «tw»lr v *teai of fcmhqf.b?
w-half or na«r. wtarrer urn have hw-« wtw
im, arv tare rat u» jw«ta< epprotatwa of
6m»ew.w ttafchowiweehlta«te#fro.n the w»h
ligem aud prarticel fcnnrrs whose nan*e* are
attached. abundantly show:
certificates.
this umv certify art
wn and rad the i’alrnt wheel tnh.*.tor,.rented
bv natmxx il>e, of sheßef, othanx n h
york, and mim it to he, m labor-saving m»-
cbine, .«e of lta*n»trs» unprovemeihs of a* »ge.
bv it. a farmer cast p«* fr°* 10 6f,r n
uk>r<- of wheat at a jwr, orth tjr- rune amount. >f
team b»>or; be can also aow .t in moefa hetter order.
by it aleo canmfc thistle* and other noxn** tree...
ora be total* extirpated. said machine »so coo
sttrrted ttatu can be rented to go an, depth, by
mean* of screws on the upper part of the mcaine,
and thus either plow up the ground ‘***”w>"
<a.lv jmrt brash ibe «wfc<*. tpoo the
think ii decidedly the be*t machine ever tainted fcr
puhreriainr the ground and fceihtnting the labor of
ae farmer, and a# such we cheerfully recommend it
to ocr brother farmers.
jame« h. hedley, james ide
enos newman, john stereim,
john c. wheeler, hart ex hedley,
gardner berry. james p. anderson,
shelby, co., aphi 23, 1&48.
we, "tlie undersigned, purchased one of nathan
ide’s patent cultivators last fall, and found it
answer the purpose so well, that we hare this spring
made purchase af another. w’e can with this plow
prepare with two horses, eight acres of land per day
fcr wheat, and it is much better dona than by the
old plows; and the land pepared by this cultivator
will yield 5 bush, per acre more.
7 eli church.
riga, june, 1848. dennis church.
after these testimonials, the subscriber deems it
unnecessary to enter into a long and elaborate des
cription of the implement, with its various inodes ol
operation. to be fully appreciated, it must be seer
and used. no farmer who fully understands hii
interest will be without one, a* it is an invaluable
implement. nathan ide, patentee.
shelby, orleans co., n. y. t july 1848-
ide’s patent cultivator is manufactured by
levi wells, buffalo street, near the bull
heal, rochester, n. v-, where farmers are iuvitei
to call ami examine for themselves.
owen morris’ city bindery
under thf museum —late fisher morris.
mr. morris was in the employ of mr. marcus
morse for seven years, and during that tim<
procured for him three silver medals, for the bes
specimens of book binding, exhibited at the me
ehanics’ fairs held in this city and buffalo.
gentlemen’s libraries fitted up and repaired
music paper ruled; music and periodicals bourn
and finislted to any pattern. blank account book
executed at this establishment have given unequallci
satisfaction, by their durability and elegance. stric
attention is always paid to tlte quality of paper used
to render them equal to the best in the united state
or those imported.
ladies’ scrap and guard books, albums an<
portfolios, in all their varieties, manufactured ti
order in the best style.
blanks, institutions, societies, &c., may b
assured of work being done on the most advantageon
terms.
gentlemen residing at a distance, by packing an
forwarding volumes to the above directions, statin
price and style, may rely upon their being well boun
on the most favorable terms, also carefully an
punctually returned.
n.b. the proprietor lias spared no expense i
fitting up the establishment* and introducing int
western new york the latest improvements i
book binding.
owen morris,
city bindery, under the museum.
british periodical
literature.
subscribe early while the terms
are low.
republication of
the london quarterly review, the
edinburgh, review, the north rrit
ish review, the westminster review,
and blackwood's edinburgh maga
zinc.
the above periodicals are repri nted in new york,
immediately on their arrival by the british steamers,
in a beautiful clear type, on fine white paper, and
are faithful copies of the originals, blackwood’?
magazine, lieing an exact fac-rinuleol the edinburgh
edition.
'i lrev embrace the views of the three great parties
in england—tory, whig, and radical. “black
wood’' and the london quarterly” are 'lory; the
edinburgh review” whig; and the westmin
ster review” radical. the north british re
view” is more of a rsligiotu character, having beer
originally edited by dr. chalmers, and now, since
his death, being conducted bv his son-in-law, dr.
hanna, associated with sir david brewster. its
literary character is of the very highest order..
