From the Pennsylvania Freeman.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS,
Delivered on Saturday afternoon the 14 th inst., at the
Assembly Buildings, Philadelj-h a.
Our object is the abolition of slavery,
and these meetings which lie hold are
mainly but the means for that purpose.
There is of course a great variety of
opinions as to the most proper means
for the abolition of slavery. It is na
tural there should be,-as long as men
think independently and it is only
from independent thinking that such a
cause as ours, or any unpopular cause,
gets either sympathy or aid. It is very
natural, therefore, that there should be
great varieties ot opinion as to the
means by which slavery should be at
tacked; and doubtless it is equally true
that when slavery is abolished, it will
be accomplished by the union of men of
all ideas, or rather, I might say, it will
be the result of the efforts of all men,
whether united or separated, who hon
estly hate the institution and earnestly
labor to put it down. The abolitionist,
therefore, because he proposes a par
ticular method in which to attack sla
very, by m means asserts that, that is
the only channel through which the
great current of public sentiment can
move; still it is equally a truism with
what I have been saying, that there is
such a thing as a good way and a bad
way; an efficient way and an inefficient
way; a way that wastes means, and a
way that husbands them; a way that
will hasten results, and a way that will
postpone them indefinitely. Now, the
duty of those men who have devoted
life and influence, feeling the cause to
be worthy of life and influence, is cer
tainly this, to use all the means in their
power to point out which is the best
way, and to press it on the attention and
to recommend it to the adoption ot the
community in general. The abolition
ist, therefore, when he presses upon his
fellow-citizens a peculiar method by
which slavery is to be abolished, by no
means asserts that there may not be
honest labor in another direction; by no
means is he so wild and ignorant as to
suppose that all minds, like all watches,
can keep time together; not even as
near as all watches can, and you know
Charles V. found he could not keep
them together.
The duty, however, of adopting and
of perseveringly recommending the best
method, is just as important when we
recognize this idea of human nature as
when we do not; especially when we
can consider further, that slavery is an
evil by no means of a slight chaiacter,
by no means of a narrow extent, but
that it has covered the land for two
centuries, that it corrupts almost every
element of the national character, that
we meet it in its influences at every
turn; that, like the skeleton in the
feasts of the Egyptian, there is no reli
gious, no rejoicing anniversary to which
slavery in the present state of the
country is not and ought not to be a
guest. You will remember the com
plaint of the clergymen who went to
form what they were pleased to term
the “Evangelical Alliance,” and who
thought they had got four thousand
miles away from the plague-spot of
their country, but to their dismay and
discomfiture it was flared in their faces
at the very moment they wished to unite
the Christianity of the world in a set of
abstractions, causing them to cry out
in very shame and distress, Is there
no place free from this abomination?”
Well; now the duty of the abolitionist
is to see to it that there be no place
where the conscience of the American
Jfatitm can exist, into which the preach
cr of an awakened responsibility on the
subject of slavery is not introduced.
Well, again, you must not expect
that reform is a matter of peace. It
never was, and it never will be. The
greatest, the only perfect reformer that
ever appeared on earth, said he came
not to send peace, but a sword. Re
form is always aggressive. It cannot
be otherwise. The moment it sinks
and lulls itself into quiet, it ceases to be
reform. And yet whenever there ari
ses a call for a great and national re
form, there always starts up a variety of
characters, and the natural, inevitable,
consequence is collision, and it cannot
be otherwise. You will find that in all
history, you will find that in every state
of society, the moment there is a call
for a reformation, there will appear men
of great charity, men who are like the
Hindoo fanatic. Their religion con
sists in putting out their eyes; their
charity thinks to cover a multitude of
sins by sealing up their eye-lids instead
of getting rid of the obstruction to a
clear and searching vision. These are
the moderate men, these are the men to
whom Luther alluded when he described
Erasmus, his cotemporary, Men who
strive to walk upon eggs without break
ing them.” They are men who think
that moderation is the secret of success,
when on the contrary there never was a
reform carried by moderate means or
moderate measures, and, especially,
when the evil sought to be eradicated
had spread its roots through the whole
sti'ucture of society.
The whole progress of Christianity
exhibits a series of great moral battle
fields. It was not by moderate means
I that its principles have been promul
gated. Luther aad Fox were not mod
j erate men; Lamartine is not a moder
ate man. He is a bold, out-spoken
man. It has not been by soft-spoken
language that the masses of Europe
have reached, painfully and step by
step, that elevation where now the
swarthy brow of labor begins for the
first time to be cheered and warmed by
the benignant rays of God’s sun-light.
These moderate reformers constitute a
class against which there must be di
rected not the attacks, but almost the
suspicion of men that fear to grapple
with a great national sin. Then there
is another class of| reformers who
always come up when a reformation is
proposed; who are like the men in our
State Legislatures, always ready to
vote for a bill, but are sure to saddle it
with an amendment which will secure
its defeat. These were the coloniza
tionists of our early enterprise. Men;
whose tears always flowed at the!
thought of the black man being so far'
oft' front his native soil, whose health
could only be secured while the breeze
of his native hills fanned his cheek.—
These are the men who claim to be
abolitionists and vote for Henry Clay.j
thinking they can no where place their j
head so*sa!'ely as in the lion’s mouth.
These are the men who, under the
plea of regard for our principles, be
tray them. I make these remarks to
I show that nothing strange has happened
|to us, because it is .the fate of every re
form to find these classes of individu
als, more dangerous from their proxim
ity. Their disguise, therefore, must be
exposed they must be contended
with. The abolitionist, therefore, is
obliged to be an aggressive man, not
oi 1/ on the institutions and evils of so
ciety, but on thi S 3 who propose plans
I for lelieving them. This is his voca
tion, to see-that the energies of the
great national conscience are not
wasted. It is his duty to see, as far as.
God has given him ability, that the cur
rent is not shifted from its proper chan
nel. He becomes, therefore, necessa
rily, an aggressive man, a fighter, a
sentinel. His means are small; the
evil is great; his time is short; ruin
looms in the distance; he must meet it,
and meet it with such materials as he
has at hand. Again, all these consid
erations receive more importance from
the fact that the institution in tire midst
of wdiich fie stands, is so overwhelming,
so strong, so mighty, and from the ex
tremely erroneous views that prevail on
all sides of him concerning it. For in
stance: On this day there are gathering
together in various Chapels those who
call themselves the representatives of
the religious sentiment of the nation,
those who presume to represent the
Christianity of man. And there is an
activity on their part. They can re
member the Hindoo, translate the Bible
into all the tongues of the globe, flood
all the Sandwich Islands with enlight
enment, Christianity and civilization.—
They have gathered together every vil
lage from Maine to Georgia to interest
in the ends of the earth all those who
sit beneath their ministrations. But
the Bible to the man who speaks the
tongue their mother taught, the Bible to
the oppressed on the banks of the Po
tomac, the rights of man to the thou
sands of Alabama and Arkansas, they
have no voice, no ear for their com
i plaint, They are silent beneath the
idea that their position discharges them
i from all responsibility in the matter.
The idolatry of the people on the other
l side of the globe the Pope of Rome,
who is blessed with all the aid which
i wealth and science can afford, that is
i their care, and over that they watch
with individual responsibility; but the
l wrongs and miseries of three million
f slaves in the southern territory, and fai
1 worse than that, the corrupted sensi
bilities of fourteen millions who stanc
with their feet upon their necks; —al
f this is tabooed to those who represen
t the religious sentiment of the Americar
3 people. Well, now, here is a duty foi
the abolitionist to perform before he cai
t hope to topple down this great Bastih
e of oppression and infamy; he must ge
n the religious sentiment on his side
nothing less can grapple, with it. Ev
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN
erything else it can bribe, everything
else it can overwhelm, everything else
it can bully. When he shall once
bring to his side the religious enthusi
asm of the old Puritanic stock, with all
the vigor of that age when they took
their life from the European side, jus
tice and humanity shall triumph. This
is the only way, according to all human
probability, in which it will ever be
done. Of course we speak with refer
ence to the manner in which things are
usually done in the world, or the man
ner in which history informs us they
have been accomplished in all past
ages. We have no idea what the an
gelic state of man may be in future
times. The period may come when he
will act upon higher principles; but if
man is to be what he has been, there
is nothing that can outdo so powerful,
so subtle, so determined an institu
tion as slavery, but the religious senti
ment.
The mistake of some abolitionists is,
that they go cap in hand to the door of
what they are pleased to call a church,
almost asking pardon for what they call
schismatic movements. When the Pope
excommunicated Luther, Luther did not
apologize. He excommunicated the
Pope! The world will decide which
was in the right. We are bound to
exclaim with Melancthon, “We are
the church, whoever separates from us,
separates from the church.” Chris
tianity is always the highest idea of the
age. It is always the leader of civili
zation. Why, I recollect, a year ago
this month, the New York Evangelist j
said in a long article, that the church!
had been recreant in its duty; that re-!
formers not connected with the church,
not even professors of religion, had
anticipated the church. It said the
church was asleep, and I am sure I w ill
not dispute that. But the so-called
church is not the vital embodiment of
Christianity; it is not God’s represent
ative on earth. You will remember
what the Scotch chieftain said when in
vited to quit his seat at the foot of the
table, and take the head of the feast.—
He replied, “Where Macgregor sits is
the head of the feast.” And so it is in!
religion; where good is done, there is l
the church. Infidelity never fathered
a noble action; I claim them all for;
Christianity. A noble thought has
never come up from her. Every goodj
and every perfect gift comcth down
from the Father of lights. There can!
be no Christianity except what is
Christ-like, and to imagine that any-!
thing out-does the church of Christ, is!
blasphemy. I know no apostolic sue- j
cession except the men on whose heads
God’s own bands have rested, the'
Luthers, the Pasclrals, the Oberlihs,
the Howards, Elizabeth Fry, the Clark
sons, and others, through whose works
God has called up Christianity step by
step in its onward march.
Christianity docs not exist in an idle
organization, mark me I am not saying
that the church organization of this land
is an idle one, and I will try shortly to
prove to you that it is not, I am laving
down a few rules by which I will try to
prove which is the infidel, which is the
head of the table.
Christianity is ever active. It cannot
exist in an idle church. The blaster
comes to the door and knocks, in the
voice of a new idea. He says to the
church, Come up higher. He wants
the world to take another step in the
direction of right, justice, eternal
truth. It is now the cause of the drunk
ard, now of the slave, now of the bat
tle-field, and now the cause of moral
purity. No matter what it is. It
knocks at the door, if the sheep hear
the shepherd’s voice, they will answer
it, and come out and follow him to the!
wilderness. If there be no answering
appeal, then their religion is a matter j
of habit and not of principle. There
never was a man who loved truth, and
justice, and humanity, whose heart
would not have leaped in his bosom at
the summons to do battle in behalf of a
higher phase of God’s providence, no
matter what the consequences to him
personally may be. An illustration of
what I mean is suggested by the cir
cumstances in which I stand. In Great
Britain the Friends were a noble band
in behalf of the slave, before the earli
est times of Wilberforce. They did
their duty well, and it was to men
whose names an ungrateful world has
forgotten we owe it, that the vessel of
anti-slavery reform ever reached a safe
harbor. It was to the Allens, the
Dillwyns and others, whose money was
poured like water, who never counted
day nor night, that the negroes owe
I their liberty. The Friends in Great
Britain now have no abolitionism in
them, I will tell you why I judge them
so; it they had a spark of anti-slavery
in them when the question of tory and
whig, and the corn laws, and all the
j other liberal and republican questions
j came up, their hearts would have leaped
j in the cause, and they would have been
like their fathers, found battling in be
half of freedom,justice, andhumanity:
but they were abolitionists by habit,
and consequently their hearts did not
leap in the cause, and they were not
found following in the footsteps of their
fathers.
Now there is another difficulty, and
a very great difficulty, too, which the
abolitionist meets with at every turn.—
We come to the American people with
the idea that it is the wisdom of Chris
tianity to serve the human race, and
ask them their idea of our slave sys
tem. Well, they are steeped to the
lips with the idea that the negro is pro
perty, we cannot get this idea out ol
them. If you argue with a man till
i midnight, and finally succeed in en
lightening him so far as to enable hirr
to distinguish between man and brutish
beasts, he all at once learns that Capt
Sayres helped a man to gain his liberty
ROCHESTER, N. Y„ FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1848.
and asks you if you approve of stealing
slaves, it you approve of aiding the
slave to escape. It is impossible to get
it out of his mind, that between him
and the negro, a shadow of the slave
holder ever stands; you cannot enable
him to comprehend the great, and what
should be self-evident truth, that a man
has the first right to himself. Frederick
JDouglass once applied to a lady, asking
her to give him something to help the
anti-slavery enterprise, and this pious
old lady, who left forty or sixty thou
sand dollars to the church where she
worshipped, told him she could not con
scientiously give anything to a man
guilty of the enormous crime of steal
ing himself. Now the means by which
the abolitionist is to eradicate this idea,
is to meet the American at every turn,
to ring it in his ears, man is not pro
perty; tell him it is right to aid the
slave to escape, turn the slaveholder
over to every epithet of truth—truth,
mark you. But no word should ever
be spoken for the purpose of exaspera
tion, and no truth should be left un
spoken from fear of exasperating any.
The slaveholder and his abettors
should be met on every side with the
assertion of the negro’s humanity; let
the cry be, the negro is a man, and let
it be enforced by all the severity which
it is possible to bring to bear upon the
mind and conscience of the American
people. I know the broad capabilities
of the Anglo-Saxon language for sar
casm, reproach, and denunciation; but
I also know that the Anglo-Saxon race
has a capability for singing, which sur
passes the utmost capacity of the lan
guage to denounce their sin, and there
fore no man need fear of erring as
Jong as he confines his reproaches and
denunciations within the dictionary.—
Another generation will wonder at the
tameness with which we rebuked the
slaveholder.
But I wish to pass, in review, some
of the other relations that bind us to
slavery. Now there is the State, That
is another great element, and the ques
tion is with the abolitionist, what he
shall do with the church and state.—
There is no disposition to shed blood,
to raise an insurrection. That will not
do. Every body ignores that. You
must create a great public sentiment in
favor of abolition, is the cry. We all
agree to that,but how is this great pub
lic sentiment to be raised. Shall it be
done by these mild men that sit under
the shadow of our institutions, to re
buke in the abstract the institution of
slavery? Mild means have been tried
for a long time, and the institution lias 1
been growing stronger and stronger j
under these mild attempts to
it. We must try some other means.—
But you would not abolish the Union,
say they, in order to get rid of slavery?
Why, it is by no means certain that we
would not. But you might get rid of
slavery quicker some other way This
is not the question. This is an Ameri
can question, the question of a man
whose life is in accordance with that ol
the politician described by a certain
author to be “a man who served God:
as not to offend the Devil.” Now, the
American people love a compromise.—
It is bread and meat to them, and,
therefore, the American’s first question
is, can you not get rid of slavery quick
er some other way? I was not born to
abolish slavery. No man was sent into
the world to abolish slavery, or intem
perance, or anything else. He was
sent into the world to do his duty, and,
after he has done that, consequences
are God’s. You say, by staying in the
Union, you might abolish slavery in a
short time. By exciting insurrection, I
might do it quicker still. Perhaps
were I to drink every day, in public,
Sam Johnson’s toast, Flere’s to the
first insurrection in Jamaica,” it would
help materially to bring about this re-j
suit. Who knows but that it would j
startle the slaveholder quicker than any-1
thing else? But it is not the quickest
but the rightful way which you are
bound to take. You have no right to
remain in the Union in order to abolish
slavery, any more than you have a
right to remain in the church for the
same purpose. Our first duty is to con
sult the light in our bosom, a light
placed there for our guidance by the
hand of Deity, and its guidances we
are bound to follow, without looking at
ultimate results, which are God’s. One
great fault of the American people is,
that they cannot trust God. They are
not only afraid to trust him, but they
do not know what it means to walk by
faith and not by sight. You must prove
it to a man; good must spring up under
his feet. This is one of the compro
mises of our character which has cor
rupted the church. We had good sense
enough when the vessel of state was
launched. There never were more
faithful people than the early Friends
and Methodists They got rid of slavery
in the church, but they were mystified
j by the relations into which they w re
cast by the workings of a corrupt poli
tical government, and became entan
gled into it, lost sight of their responsi
bility to God, and went on acting under
the government, and taking part in it;
touched pitch, and necessarily became
defiled; and now slavery has not a bet
ter bulwark than the Society of Friends,
1 nor a stronger champion than the Meth
odists of the United States. What has
turned these men aside from their oppo
sition to slavery An affection of the
j atmosphere in which they have been
brought up: We have been probably
dreaming that slavery would be abol
ished some how or other. Just as a
Liberty party man told me the other
day, who will vote for John P. Hale,
whose principles he don’t dare even tc
i; ask—a man who has not yet found oul
i! whether man has property in his fellow
i man. After speaking to this Libert)
party man upon the subject of the na-
tional conscience, he said, “This is J
just what I told our convention last
week. I told them that after the next:
election we must lay down some great
principle. (Laughter.)
We have been told, we are alwavs
told, that it is not a proper time just
now to abolish slavery. This has al
ways been the cry, and it ever will be.
As in the case of property, so in the
case of slavery. The miser always de
sires a little more than he has, and the
slaveholders and their coadjutors say
the time is just a little ahead. Tnis
has been the cry since the adoption of
the Constitution. What are the facts?
Why, the slaves have increased from
thousands to millions, and the slave
power has ramified itself throughout all
the departments of state, church, and
society. But there has always been a
good time coming, when the chains
should be stricken from the limbs of the
slave, and he should rise up a man.—
It was to be in 1807 when the slave
trade was to be abolished. Indeed,
this was the general conviction, and so
the people went into partnership with
Georgia and South Carolina, until that
event should come to pass. The aboli
tion of the slave trade came at last, but
unfortunately it found an unexpected
guest at the board. The cotton interest
was seated there.' The value of slave
property had so greatly increased that
the exteimination of the evil was out of
the question. But they said again, let
us look a little ahead. When slavery
gets cooped up in narrow limits, and
has no more virgin soil to burn out,
then, said Randolph, the slaves will
accumulate so fast that their masters
will run away from them.” (Laughter.)
This would have been a capital way of
getting rid of slavery, but unfortunately
the masters have not yet concluded to
run away from the slaves, and they are
equally unwilling to let the slaves run
away from them. (Laughter.) Well,
they said the Mississippi will shut sla-;
very in. It cannot go beyond that!
river. But when slavery arrived at the S
Mississippi and found it was hard press- 1
ed from behind, it very quickly leaped
over the Mississippi and established it-j
self on the other side of that majestic
stream. And now they tell us that sla
very is to run away off to Mexico, so
far that it will never get back. (Laugh
ter.) It will be time enough to believe
this when we see slavery running. Butj
that will never be if you let it take its
own time for it. It is needless to talk
of the slaveholder giving up his slaves,
or of slavery running away. Slavery
can only bo overthrown by uniting
against it the religious sentiment of the
land. To do this, we must agitate, must
sjtcak, must write* Portly men, with a
great deal in their pockets and very
little in their heads, laugh at tracts and
books and abolition speeches, and
pretend to despise [their influence, and
perhaps in their ignorance they do de
spise it.
George Sands and La Menais began
to talk to the inhabitants of Paris, to
write tracts, and scatter them among
the people. And Louis Phillippe and
his government laughed at George
Sands and La Menais and their tracts
and speeches, but one morning the
rich and wise monarch, the Napoleon
of peace, saw before his palace the
blouses who had counted their number,
and heard them utter the words of Geo.
Sands and La Menais, and in a few
minutes you might have seen an old
gentleman, with a woman packed under
his arm, and an umbrella in his hand,
marching at a brisk pace towards the
railway station. They bad talked him
out of his palace, they had talked him
out of France, they had talked France
into a republic. (Applause.) So let
us talk everywhere, and let us talk in
season and out of season. Let us say
everywhere, and on all occasions, the
negro is a man, and has a right to life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness—
he has a right to himself, and let us say
we will help him to gain his rights, that
we will help him to escape the prison
house of bondage. Let there be no
shrinking. Let us come boldly up to
the mark. lam reminded of what Dr.
Howe told me this afternoon in reia'i m
to an interview he had with Captain
Sayres, in the prison at Washington.—
The Captain remarked, It is true I
have violated the law of this little plot
of ground which you call the District
of Columbia, but -I have not violated
any law of the kingdom above. (Ap
plause.) Let us remember this, and
act upon it, and not cease our efforts
til! the land shall be rid of this foul
curse; till our national escutcheon
shall be purged from this foul blot
which has so long disgraced it, and our
country shall indeed be the home of
the free and the land of the just.” (Ap
plause.)
From the London Times.
EEEVATIOjVOF the masses.
We are aware, however, that no
theory wall satisfy those who suffer a
stern reality of degradation and denial.
The needy millions want something
more than the cold eye of justice, or
the illusive smiles of freedom-.
They want house, food and clothing.
The want work and wages. They want j
time to live and time to die, and for
these purposes the assistance of that
State to which they contributed so
much, and which undertakes to protect
them from a foreign foe, and should also
render aid against domestic ills. The
State is wise, and good, and great in
j the eyes of humble men. They fear it,
they worship it, they love it. What
childlike confidence does the honest
laborer repose in “the gentlemen” who
rule the destinies of his little sphere
j The British laborer is taught from his
childhood to look up for counsel and
aid> For our part, wc have continually
j urged that it is the duty of the State to I
fultil such expectations. We have re
jected and denounced the system of!
leaving things to take their course, and
the poor man to shift for himself, as ut-j
terly inapplicable to our social state.—
Amid such obloquy we have impressed
upon the State the duty of supplying
work to the willing and relief to the
destitute; of protecting the more help-1
less sex or age; of enacting by law thej
dictates of humanity and common
sense; of adapting legislation to the j
facts of the case; of laying the chief j
pressure of our fiscal burdens on those
who are most able to bear them.
We cannot better denote the spirit
of our advice than by referring to the
chief stigma we have had to endure.—
Not a month has passed for many a
long year without a repetition of the
charge that we were falling into the
errors of Communism. The smallest
interference with wages, time, circum
stances of employment, was compared
to the frantic demands of a rustic de
magogue. That was our offence. We
aimed too much at a domestic, a pater
nal, protecting legislation.
Now, we do not hesitate to say, that
much of our present peace and secu
rity arises from the extent to which the
nation has complied with these princi
ples, imperfect and partial as that com
pliance has professedly been. The
population of these islands know and
confess with more or less readiness that j
it is under a kind and thoughtful Gov- j
eminent, anxious to assist the weak and!
relieve the poor. Every child of pov- j
erty knows that there are laws and in- j
1 stitutions of charity, with a powerful
section in the press and Senate laboring j
to give them more efficacy and scope, j
The vast population of the factory and
the mill feels that its rulers watch over;
its strength, its education, and its com-i
fort. This State thus rises up before j
the national mind as reasonable and
tender. In point of fact, under very
{great hindrances and drawbacks, the!
dream of the Communists and Social-;
ists receives its nearest possible fulfil-:
ment. The State becomes a society for!
i the common good, giving to all its mem- j
bers a rateable in the common benefit'
and stock, providing for the sick and j
aged from the funds of health and
strength, and securing the weak from
excessive competition. The British
empire is a great and friendly society..
We have often described it in that char
acter, and done our best that it should
act up to the responsibility implied.
Hence it is that we alone stand when
every realm is shaken, and revolution,
like the beacon fire, glances from throne
to throne. In one month the. whole of
central Europe has not only quailed,
but succumbed. Why need we count
up twenty states. Austria has capitu-j
luted! That speaks for the rest. Aus
tria, with her untold army, with her
hundred and fifty thousand men to spare
j for Italy, with her gigantic ally, with
her undisputed ascendancy, with Met
ternich, has submitted to the common
fate. Surely the fallen depths will say,
“Art thou also become weak as we?—
Art thou become like unto us?” There
is scarcely aught left for revolution.—!
But its course is from the west. What
next? If Vienna had its Hungary, itsi
Poland, its Venice, and Milan, has not
St. Petersburgh also its Moscow, its re
bellious Poles, its Teutonic tributaries,
its Siberian tribes, its Circassian foes?
Nay, the capital itself is built on new
territory. Meanwhile, thus far, Eng
land pursues the even tenor of her
course. Revolution shrinks from a me
tropolis where it cannot find one re
spectable malignant. It sinks at once
into a vulgar burlesque.
BOUNDLESSNESS of the CREATION
About the time of the invention of j
the telescope, another instrument was!
formed, which laid open a scene no less!
wonderful, and rewarded the inquisi
tive spirit of man. This was the mi-1
croscope. The one led me to see a
system in every star; the other leads
me to see a world in eVery atom, The
one taught me that this mighty globe,
with the whole burden of its people and
its countries, is hut a grain of sand on!
the high field of immensity; the other
teaches me that every grain of sand I
may harbor within it the tribes ami fam-
ilies of a busy population. The one
told me of the insignificancy of the;
world I tread upon. The other re
deems it from all insignificancy; for it j
tells me that in the leaves of every
forest, and in the flowers of every gar-|
den, and in the waters of every rivulet,!
there are worlds teeming with life, and;
numberless are the glories of the firma
ment. The one has suggested to me,
that beyond and above all that is visible
to man, there may be fields of creation!
which sweep immeasurably along, and
carry the impress of the Almighty’s;
hand to the remotest scenes of the uni-;
verse; the other suggests tome, that;
within and beyond all that minuteness
which the aided eye of man has been
able to explore, there may be a region
of invisible; and that, could we draw
7 j
aside the mysterious curtain which
shrouds it from our senses, we might
see a theatre of as many wonders as
astronomers have unfolded, a universe
within the compass of a point so small
as to chide all the powers of the micro
scope, but where the wonder-working
God finds room for all his attributes,
where he can raise another mechanism
ot worlds, and fill and animate the evi
dence of his glory.— Chalmers.
We learn our virtues from the bosom
friends who love us; our faults from the
enemy who hates us. We cannot easi
ly discover our real form fr-om a friend.
He is the mirror, on which the warmth
of our breath impedes the clearness of
reflection.
WILLIAM C. NELL, Publisher
JOHN DICK,. Printer.
WHOLE NO-24.
THE POWER OF k KINDNESS.
Fenelon was a Roman Catholic, and
Arch Bishop of Cain bray, in France.
He was a man of file finest feelings, of
the greatest benevolence, and he uni
formly practiced the law— “overcome
evil with good.” lie was always kind
and affable to the lowly, mild and
courteous to the ignorant, philanthropic
to the miserable, gentle both
to friend and foe. The consequence
was, that he won all hearts. His
diocese was often the seat of war but
the English, Germans, and Dutch even
surpassed the inhabitants of Carnbray
in their love and veneration for him.
At such times, he gathered the wretch
ed into his residence and entertained
them for his know'n goodness had
surrounded him with a power which
even contending armies could not
resist; and the consequence was, that
his dwellings were safe, even when
towns and villages were lying in
smoking ruins around him. The fol
lowing is an instanse of his great kind
ness.—He observed one day, that a
peasant, who had been driven from his
home, and to whom Fenelon had given
shelter, ate nothing. He enquired the
reason: “Alas!” said the poor man,
“in making my escape from my cot
tage, I had not time to bring off my
cow, which was the support of my
family. The enemy will drive her
away, and I shall never find another so
good-” Fenelon, availing himself of
his privilege ot safe conduct, immedi
ately set out, accompanied by a single
servant, and drove her back himself to
the peasant. By thus walking accor
ding to the law ol overcoming evil with
good, he gained the affection of all.
The peasantry loved him as their fath
er—and, long after his death, their
tears would flow when they said,
There is the chair on which our good
Arch Bishop used to sit in the midst of
us; we sh 11 see him no more.” What
a crown of unfading glory the law of
love gave him!— Montgomery.
“HE MY ENEMY MASSA,”
The following was first published in
the London Christian Observer:—
A slave in one of the islands of the
est Indies, who had originally come
from Africa, having been brought un
der the influence of religious instruc
tion, became singularly valuable to his
owner, on account of his integrity and
general good conduct.
After some time his master raised
him to a situation of some consequence
in the management of his estate; and
on one occasion, wishing to purchase
twenty additional slaves, employed him
to make the selection, giving him
instruction to choose those who were
strong and likely to make good work
men.
Phe man went to the slave market
and commenced his scrutiny. He had
not long surveyed the multitude offered
for sale, before he fixed his eye upon
one old and decrepit slave, and told his
master that he must be one. The
master appeared greatly surprised at
his choice, and remonstrated against
it.
The poor fellow begged that he
might be indulged; when the dealer
remarked, that if they were about to
buy twenty, he would give them the
man in the bargain.
The purchase was accordingly made,
and the slaves were conducted to the
plantation of their master; but upon
none did the selecter bestow half the
attention and care that he did upon the
poor old decrepit African.
He took him to bis own habitation,
and laid him upon his own bed; he fed
him at his own table, and gave him
drink out of his own cup: when he was
cold, he carried him into the sunshine;
and when lie was hot, he placed him
under the shade of the cocoanut-tree.
Astonished at the attention this confi
dential slave bestowed upon a fellow
slave, his master interrogated him upon
the subject.—He said, Tou could net
take so much interest in the old man,
but for some special reason: he is a
relation ofyours, perhaps your father?”
No, massa,” answered the poor
fellow, “he no my fader.” “He is
then an elder brother?” No, massa,
!heno my broder!” Then he is an
uncle, or some other relation?” “No,
massa, he no be my kindred at all,
nor even my friend!” Then,” asked
I the master, on what account does he
excite your interest?” “He my ene-
I rny, massa,” replied the slave, “ho
sold me to the slave dealer; and my
Bible tell me, when my enemy hunger,
feed him, and when he thirst, give him
drink.”
Tobacco and Teeth.— lt has long
been a popular whim that tobacco was
a preservative of the teeth, tending to
prevent tartarous excresences, which
inflame the gums and render the
bloodvessels irritable and tender. I)r.
Cordell, an experienced dentist of Al
bany, in a late work on the effects of
tobacco, alcohol and drugs on the teeth,
gives the following testimony:—“l
have found much more difficulty in
fitting artificial teeth in the mouths of
tobacco chewers than others, owing to
the irritable and tender state of the
gums. Tobacco causes the gums to
recede from the teeth whereby they
l become loosened.’'
Nature has placed the natural eye
of men in the front sid6 of the head.—
false edneation, or natural perversity,
has twisted round the mental eye of
some men, so that it looks out at the
back side of the head. Hence the two
parties in the world,—the Forward-look
ing, and the Backward-looking; or the
Progressives and the Retrogressives.-
Horace Mann.
Notices.
Meetings in the West.
Henry C. Wright, the Apostle of Peace,!
and Charles C. Burleigh, the eloquent Anti-1
slavery Advocate, will hold meetings at the J
following places, viz: at
Pittsburgh, Pa. June 15th, 16th 1/th
New Brighton, 19th 20th
Louisville Ohio 22d
Youngstown, 21th 25th
New Lyme 97th
Painesville, 29th
Chagrin Falls, July Ist &2d
Cleveland, d-th
Twinsburgh, 9th
Richfield, Bth 9th
Akron, 1,l V„ tJil
Ravenna, 1
Randolph, 15lh lGttl
Massillon,
Thft meetings at New Lyme, Cleveland,!
and Akron, will commence at ten o’clock, A.i
M.; the others, on the first day of the meet- j
mgs at two o’clock, P. M.; subsequent days)
at°lo A. M. 1
The friends of Anti-Slavery and of Peace
are requested to make all necessary arrange
ments for the meetings, and give as wide aj
notice as possible. !Now is the time to
agitate.
Persons can avail themselves of this op
portunity afforded by these meetings to pay
for the Anti-Slavery Standard, to Samuel-
Brooke.
National Convention of the Liberty
League.
Notice. —Agreeably to the recommenda
tion of the Liberty Party Convention, held in
Auburn, January 12th and 13th, 1848, a Na
tional Liberty Party Convention will be held
in the city of Buffalo, on the 14th and 15th
davs of June, 1848.
This Convention, from the fact that it is ex
pected to nominate candidates for. President
and Vice President; and to take high and ef
fective gi'ound in behalf of personal liberty,
free-trade, free-soil, exemption from the bur
den and curse of war, and from other viola
tions of the equal rights of all men, will proba
bly attract a large concourse of persons and
be of a deeply interesting character.
Aid from England.
Our friends will be gratified to learn, that
the Address of the Anti-Slavery Women of!
Western New York,” has been separately i
printed and circulated in England, with the.
view of helping the cause along. We ant-I
cipate much from this effort. Several of the
names appended will be recognised as the
foremost in every good work. After the
address, the following is added
Responding to the call of these noble
hearted women, and desiring not only to sym
pathise, but to co-operate with them in carry
ing out their intended plan for supplying
articles for the Rochester Anti-Slavery Ba
zaar, a few warm friends of emancipation
propose to send out boxes of needle-work for
this purpose, and they earnestly solicit the
aid of all who are interested in the cause of
the poor oppressed American slave.
Contributions of every description, fancy
works of every kind, books, prints, drawings,
&c., .will be thankfully received by the fob
owing ladies
Mrs. Hovvitt, Upper Clapton.
Miss Campbell, Tabernaele House, Fins
bury.
Misses Griffiths, Beckenham, Kent, and
5, Charles Square, London.
Mrs. Joseph Biggs, Knighton, Leicester.
Mrs. Ellis, 11, Charlotte Street, Park
Street, Bristol.
Mrs. Edward Richardson, 6, Summer
Hill Grove, Nevvoastle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. Dixon, Tatham Street, Bishopwear
mouth, Sunderland.
Miss Nicholson, Eden Bank, Carlisle.
Donations in money will also he very ac
ceptable. All contributions are requested to j
be forwarded by the Ist of October next.” J
We feel assured that this tender of help j
from England will encourage the friends of
the slave, in this, the land of his bondage
and oppression, to redouble their efforts, and j
urgo them to continued “perseverance and;
fidelity in the work of restoring men and wo- j
men to themselves —to the rights and bless
ings with which they were endowed by our
Creator.”
Anti-Slavery Feeling in Virginia.
A recent number of the Richmond South
erner contains the following article. After
deprecating the existing debates in Congress,
on the subject of Slavery, the Editor pro
ceeds
The country proposed to be ceded to us
by the late treaty with Mexico, it should be
remembered, the Almighty has Wihnot Pro
visoed. Should the free States consent (and
that they never will,) that slavery shall be
allowed there, still the climate and the,
country would forbid it. Why, therefore,
should we contend for that which profiteth us
not —which we can never pessess Js it not
wisdom on our part to say to the North, We
be brethren and if we cannot possess this 1
property on such terms as will be mutually 5
agreeable, let us not have it at all. Let usj
not take that which must bscome an apple of;
discord and a bone of contention to us and our
successors, and which must end in a separa
tion of a people whose fathers have given us
so go6dly a heritage.,
And now as to this Slavery question,
fellow-citizens of the South, let us in good
feeling reason one with another. It should
be remembered that Great Britain has abol
ished slavery in all her colonies; France,
Denmark, Sweden, and other countries of
Europe, except Spain, have done so likewise,
is it natural to suppose that the other powers!
•of Europe will long suffer imbecile and en- j
foebled Spain to hold on to it When she
g ves way, the entire civilized world, with!
tiie exception of Brazil, will be arrayed:
ajainst us on this question. Now, what is S
our policy Is it not wisdom on our part to i
avoid having the question of Slavery agitated i
ii our political institutions The North has'
p'edged itself to maintain intact and inviolate!
tie compromises of the Constitution. Let
u therefore, abandon the acquisition of ter
ritory, and free ourselves from this untoward
di Kculty.
It is not generally known, yet it is never
theless true, that two-thirds of the people of
Virginia are open and undisguised advocates
of ridding the State of Slavery; and after
the year 1850, when the census is taken, their
views will be embodied in such form as to
Startle the South. We speak understandinoiv.
We have, within the last two years, con
versed with more than five hundred slave
holders in the State and four hundred and
fifty out of the five hundred expressed them-!
selves ready to unite on any general plan to!
abolish slavery upon almost any terms.
Abolition fanaticism at the North has not
produced this, but the annexation of Texas
snd the acquisition of territory have done it.
Virginia may be put down as no longer reli
inble on this question. When she goes, the
District of Columbia is free territory then
Delaware and Maryland will also go, and
North Carolina and Kentucky will follow
suit, Tins will surround the extreme South
with free States and when that day comes,
and it will not be very long, we would just
as lief own a parcel of wild turkeys as so
many slaves.
A telegraphic despatch from Washington
savs, despatches have'been received from the
city of Mexico, which speak with entire con
fidence of the ratification of the treaty.
Speech of Giddings,
On the bill to pay the Executrix of Benjamin Hodges,
deceased, for a Slave who left his master in Prince
Georges county, in August, 1544, and was sup~
jtosed to have escaped on board the British Fleet.
Mr. Giddings remarked, that the recommit
ment of the bill, in order to obtain a report of
the facts involved, as proposed bo the gentle
man from Vermont, [Mr. Collamer,] would be
equivalent to a rejection of it. No, said he,
we must take the case without proof, 01 we
must reject it. There is not a scintilla of le
gal evidence in the case.
Mr. Chapman desired to explain, (Mr. Gid
dings yielded the floor,) and said he Would
refer the committee to the affidavits on file
there were three of them.
Mr. Giddings resumed, lie said he would
assure the gentleman from Maryland that he
had carefully examined those affidavits. Not
one of the witnesses attempted to speak to
any fact within his knowledge. They’ each
referred to what they heard other persons say,
who knew no more in relation to the matter
than the witnesses themselves. I repeat, said
he, we have no proof to a single fact involved.
If we legislate on the subject, we must do so
in utter ignorance of all the circumstances at
tending it. Yet Ido not regard that as a
matter of much importance when compared
with the principles involved. Before I entei
upon an examination of the case, however, 1
wish to say that the charge which southern
members have raised, that northern gentle
men have introduced the subject of slavery
into this debate, was not unexpected to me
lt is in strict keeping with their usual prac
tice. What are the facts A slaveholder in
treduces a bill appropriating the money of tin
nation to pay for human flesh. My frienc
from New Hampshire objects to its passage
for the reason that he is unwilling to have tin
burdens of that institution thrown upon tin
people of the free States, and straightway
five southern members follow him in debate
each charging him with introducing the ex
citing subject of slavery into the discussion.—
Do gentlemen suppose they can thus misleac
the public! Do they believe that we shall si
here, with silent tongues and sealed lips, am
sutler such bills as this to pass this body
assure them, most respectfully, that we shal
oppose all attempts to involve our people- ir
the expense, the guilt, or disgrace of slavery
l No northern man has ever, to my knowledge,
introduced that question-here, except for the
purpose of separating the people of the fret
States from its support. No, sir; if any
Southern man can point to an instance ir
which members from the north have bronghl
the question of slavery into this Hall, excepi
to defend our people from the encroachment
of that institution, let them now rise and sus
tain their charges with proof. (Mr. G. paus
ed a moment, and then resumed.) Mr. Speak
er, where are those gentlemen who made
these charges 1 Why, sir, “they now roai
you gently as sucking doves.”
I now proceed to examine the case before
us. I repeat, that the claim is entirely un
supported by proof. But the petitioner state:
that she is the widow of Benjamin Hodges
late of Maryland; that he owned a slavi
who, in 181-1, was taken away in August o
that year bv the British army, on their retun
from this city to the Chesapeake Bay. Now
sir, this statement of the case gives the p'eti
tioucr r.o claim upon this government, unles:
we have become holden by some act of ours
This seems well understood by the petitioner
and by the committee who reported the bill
They therefore refer to our treaty of peace
with Great Britain, signed at Ghent on th<
24th December, 1811. The first article o
which provides, that each party shall evaeu
ate all territory, places, and possessions, ta
ken during the war,” without destruction, o:
carrying away any of the artillery or othe;
public property originally captured .in sak
forts or places, and which shall remain thereir
upon the exchange of ratifications of this
treaty, or any slaves, or other private pro
perty.”
Our Government claimed, under this treaty
that England should pay our slaveholders loi
all slaves taken from our shores by the Britisl
fleet when tiroj- left our coast. England re
fused, and the subject was referred to the Em
peror of Russia. He decided that the British
Government was bound to pay for slaves thus
carried away when they left our shores, after
the signing of the treaty. This led to the
treaty of St. Petersburgh, dated the 17th
June, 1822, by the first article of which pro
vision is made for establishing a board, con
sisting of two commissioners and two arbitra
tors, to determine the claims presented by the
people of this Government. This board was
constituted the joint agents of both Govern
ments. Ilis Britannic Majesty appointed one
commissioner and one arbitrator and the
President of the United States, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, ap
pointed the other commissioner and arbitra
tor. England never trusted this fund to Con
gress for distribution that was to be done by
the joint commission. The second article
provided for the ascertaining of the average
value of slaves.
The third article read as follows:
When the average value of slaves shall
have been ascertained and fixed, the two com
missioners shall constitute a board for the ex
amination of. the claims which arc to be sub
mitted by' them and they shall notify the
Secretary of State of the United States that
they are ready to receive n definite list of the
slaves and other private property for which the
citizens of the United States claim indemnifi
cation it being understood and hereby agreed
that the commission shall not take cognizance
of, or receive, and that his Britannic Majesty
shall not he required to make payment for
any claim for private property not contained in
said list.”
There is no pretence that the slave in
question was named in said list. The report
of the committee admits, that lie was not.—
[Calls from various parts of the Hall were
made for the reading of this article again.—
Mr. G. again read it, and proceeded.] This,
sir, was our distinct compact with Great
Britain. We solemnly stipulated that no
claims should be made on that Government,
nor should she be required to make compensa
tion for claims other than those contained on
the list furnished by our Secretary of State.
To-day we are called on to appropriate this
money to the payment of other claims. We
are asked to violate this solemn treaty, to dis
regard the pledged faith of the nation, in or
der to give this slaveholder the benefit of the
body, of the hones and muscles, the blood and
sinews of his fellow-man.
But, sir, in order that no room for cavil
should be left, the fifth article provided that
the decision of the two commissioners, or a
majority of the board, shall in all cases be
conclusive as to number, value, or the owner
ship of slaves, or other property for which in
demnity is to be made.” They were riot
only to confine themselves to the list furnished
them by our Secretary of State, but their
decision upon the claims mentioned on said
list was to be entirely conclusive upon the
parties.
Under this treaty, the members of this
board were appointed, met in this-city, organ
ized, took the oath of office, and called on the
Secretary of State for the list mentioned. It
was furnished; but there was no claim for
this slave upon it. They proceeded to exam
ine and adjudicate upon claims presented on
said list. Y\ hen they had completed their
lajors, they found the amount of all claims
allow ed on said list to be twelve hundred and
lour thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars.”
.1 hls was the precise amount of claims allowed
by the board, who acted as the ao-ents of G
I ntam and of the United States. And on
the loin of November, 1826, at London, an
other convention was entered into, by the Ist
artide of which it was provided that his
Biitannic Majesty should pay to this Govern
ment the sum just mentioned for the use
at the persons entitled to indemnification and
compensation by virtue of said decision.”—
n, to divert this money, or any portion of
it, to the payment of other claims, would be a
violation of the trust reposed in this Goverp
ment, a breach of this solemn covenant, and
a total disregard of our pledged faith. If
there be one cent more than to meet those
claims, there has been a mistake or a fraud on
our pait. In 1842, as Chairman of the Com
mittee on Claims, I held a correspondence
with the department on this subject, and was
then informed that abont four thousand dollars
of this fund had not then been paid out to
those to whom it was due. I now understand
there are about two thousand dollars still
remaining undistributed. But it belongs to
the person to whom it was awarded as much
as though it were bank stock and when
tl ey or their heirs call for it at the treasury,
they must receive it, whether the demand be
made this year or a century hence. The bill,
therefore, is nothing more nor less than a
proposition to pay for the slave from the public
treasury.
The committee who reported this bill admit
that the claim does not come within the pro
visions of the treaty yet they say the peti
tioner lost the slave, and they propose to pay
for his loss. Sir, shall we pay for all slaves
that have been lost? Any other man -yvho
has a slave run away, has an equal claim with
this petitioner. The owner of any one of the
thousand’fugitives now in Canada has as much
claim upon the national treasure for compen
sation as the petitioner. It' we pay this claim
the money must come from the pockets of the
j people. The people of the free States must
pay at least three-fourths of it. If we pay
i this, shall we pay for all fugitive slaves
j There are probably thirty, or perhaps forty
thousand masters who will present claims on
us for their locomotive property, each of which
i is as meritorious as the one under considera
lion.
Mr. Chairman, at the very moment we are
thus called on to legislate for the support of
slavery in Maryland and in the other slave
States, we are told that we have no power
whatever over that institution that it is so far
beyond our control, that we must not even
discuss its merits. Now, sir, I desire that
southern gentlemen shall take some position,
and that they shall remain in it at leastduring
this session of Congress. If we have juris
diction of slavery in the States, let southern
men admit the fact,and let us at once abolish
it from our Union, and wipe out the foul blot
that has so long disgraced our national char
j acter. If we have not jurisdiction of it, why
I are we called on to legislate for its support?
jlf it be a State institution, why is it con
stantly dragged into the discussions of this
j Hall Why are we called on to take juris
diction of it? Why are itsirurdens sought to
be cast upon the people of the free States?—
Why are we to participate in its crimes? A
year or two since, we were not permitted to
speak our views in regard to slavey, for the
[reason, as southern gentlemen then said, that
j we had no power over it to-day, they ask us
|to legislate for its benefit. Yes, sir, it is au
[established fact, and history will record it,
I that we are now legislating upon the rights of
J a master to his slave in Maryland not at the
instance of northern members —no, the bill
was reported by a gentleman_from South Car
olina, (Mr., Rhett,) and we northern men sit
here with all becoming gravity and solemnly
enter into an investigation of this man’s right
j to the body of his fellow-man in that State.—
I repeat, sir, we have jurisdiction of this sub
-1 jeet, or we have not. lam willing to leave
the selection of either horn of this dilemma to
j southern men. They may take their choice
i but let them choose one or the other. Let us
know \Hiere to find them. I have at all times
denied that A? have any constituilc."!? 1 powers
in relation to this institution. But if we have
the constitutional right to legislate on the sub
ject, and to appropriate the treasure of the
nation in the manner proposed, then, sir, let
us change the form of the bill before us, and
give the two hundred and eighty dollars which
it appropriates, to the slave instead of the
master. That proposition would be much
more consonant to my feelings, and is equally
within our power, and much nearer our duty.
1 would go further, and would grant fifty or a
hundred dollars to each slave who shall es
cape from his master, as a bounty for his en
ergy, and to begin the world with. But south
ern men will start hack with horror at this pro
position. Tet, sir, if we are to appropriate
the money of our people on this subject, I in
sist that the appropriation shell be for the pro
motion of freedom, and not of slavery. 1 re
peat that I arm willing southern members
should, choose either position. They may
give us jurisdiction of slavery, or they may
retain it in their several states. But if they
place it in our hands, then I propose to abolish
it at once, to strike it from existence. But,
sir, I tell southern gentlemen that we will not
take jurisdiction of it to-day, and deny that we
have any power over it to-morrow. We
will not face to the right, to the left, and to
the right-about, at the bidding of the slave
power.
Sir, I insist that we have no constitutional
power to sit here and appropriate our time to
the investigation of this matter of slavery.—
|lt is an indignity to the people of the free
States. They sent us here for no such ob
ject. I say to gentlemen of the south; “Take
care of slavery in your own way we will
have nothing to do with it. Its blessings and
its curses, .its evils and its benefits, its vices,
its crimes, its guilt and its disgrace, are yours.
Keep them to yourselves We will not con
taminate our moral or our political purity by
any participation in them.
Even during this present discussion, gentle
men have complained that vve northern men
are striving to extend our power over slavery.
This is their perpetual cry on all occasions.-
Why, sir, from the time 1 first took my seat in
this Hall to the present day, I have opposed
all attempts to connect slavery with this Gov
ernment. I repeat what I said a few days
since, that as early as 1842 I was driven from
my seat in this body for presenting resolutions
denying the power of the Federal Government
to involve the free States in the support of the
coastwise slave trade.
Mr. Holmes,of South Carolina, interrupted
Mr. Giddings, who yielded him the floor. He
then stated that Mr. Giddings was not cen
sured for presenting such resolutions, but lor
presenting a petition for dissolving the Union,
and surreptitiously sending it to a committee
of the House.
Mr. Giddings resumed. Sir, it is a most
lamentable fact, that whenever we speak upon
this subject, slaveholders in this House be
come, for the time being, actually demented.
Now, there is not the least doubt that some
phantom is haunting the disordered imagina
tion of the gentleman, (Mr. liolmes,) to the
effect which he has named. Sir, my resolu
tions are upon record, and will bear to those
who shall follow us the sentiments I have ex
pressed here to-day.
Mr. Holmes (interrupting Mr .Giddings) re
peated what he had previously said.
Mr. Giddings resumed. The gentleihan is
entirely mistaken; his assertion is false, tho’
surely.not so intended.
Mr- Gayle called Air. Giddings to order.
The Chairman, (Mr. Sims, of S. C.) deci
ded that Mr. Giddings had violated no rule of
the House.
Mr. Giddings resumed. Sir, I well know
the gentleman from South Carolina is incapa
ble of asserting an intentional falsehood. And
his persisting in the assertion is conclusive
proof of his dementation. 1 repeat that in no
instance, from my advent to this Hall down to
the present day, have I ceased to oppose all
interference with slavery. 1 have endeavored
to the extent of my humble powers, to separ
ate the Government and the people of the free.
States from all connection with it. I shall
continue those efforts, aqd thousands and tens
of thousands of others are exerting their
moral and political influence to effect that ob
ject, and we sjrall not coase our exertions un
til, by Gotj’s blessing, we shall redeem our
selves and the Government from all support of
that institution.
[to be pONCBUDED OUR NEXT.]
IK/ 3 The poet Wordsworth is said to be in
a state of imbecility, sitting often jq moody
silence, with hi? raze fixed on vacancy.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JUNE 9, 1848,
New England. Convention.
This body of the true and the tried friends
|of Emancipation, assembled in Boston, on
I Tuesday, 30th May, and continued its meet
ings during three days. Our engagements
at home denied us the privilege of being pre
sent after the first day; we are therefore
I unable to give our readers an account of its
final doings. The day of its assembling was
very tempestuous, dark, and rainy the meet
ing in the morning was therefore quite thinly
I attended, though large, considering the wca-
I tlicr. The morning meeting was chiefly oc-
Jcupied by our valued friend J. N. BufFum.
!He had recently been in Washington, and
seen the noble Drayton, Sayres, and English,
j the three men who, for doing a deed in per
i feet accordance with the law of nature and of
God, are now confined in our national prison.
'The account of his interview with them was
deeply affecting. They are confined in se
parate cells, each dark and loathsome. Two
meals a-day, and those consisting of corn
bread and herrings, is all they get, except
what they are able to purchase with their
own scanty change. BufFum asked them if
they had any money. Very little, was the
reply whereupon he gave them six dollars,
and bade them be of good cheer. Drayton
appears to be a man of nerve. Though well
aware of the .ferocity of the men into whose
j hands he has fallen, he is calm and self-pos
isessed, and conversed with great freedom of
his position. It was not until BufFum spoke
of having seen his (Drayton’s) wife and child
ren, and gave him the assurance of Edward
M. Davis, that his family should not suffer,
that ho gave signs of emotion—a tear now
stole down his rugged cheek. That,”
said he to BufFum, is all I now desire lam
ready for anything that may await me.” Oh,
j shame, eternal shame, on the nation boasling
its liberty and Christianity, while such a man
for such a deed is confined to a dungeon!
Friend BufFum it.formed us, that he called
at the office of the National Era, in the hope
j of hearing something of the situation of these
j noble men; hut strange as it may seem,
neither the editor of the Era nor its publisher,
has dared to visit these men in prison. Gid
dings, the Whig, could go; Baily, the Li
berty Party man, could not. Let this be
remembered.
When friend BufFum sat down, William
j Lloyd Garrison reported a series of resolu
lions from the business Committee, which
brought several speakers to their feet, and
quite an interesting discussion took place on
the several resolutions, but mainly on the
motto of the American Anti-Slavery Society,
“No Union With Slaveholders.” Mr.
Thompson, of Walpole, desired the Conven
j tion to inform him what they meant by the
raotte in question. There were many who
jdid not understand it; and for their sake.
rather than for his own, ho desired an cx
planation. Air. Pierpont, too, did not under. j
stand the motto, and proceeded to show that
l the Convention that adopted it, were at fault
—that they were in union with slaveholders,
jby using the'National Post Office. Mr. Gar
rison and Mr. Burleigh replied to Mr. Pier
pont, showing to the govern- j
Tment’s monopoly in carrying letters is a very
different thing from swearing to support a
Constitution pledging them to return fugitive
;slaves to bondage, and to shoot down the!
i slave, in trying to gain his liberty by force, j
It strikes us as being rather a small business!
a mind like that of Mr. Pierpont to be
framing such an argument to ease his con- j
science. He might as well say, that the i
Emperor of Russia is in favor, or in union
with republicanism, because he leads a letter
from America, as to say that we who have j
abandoned the political franchise are in union j
with slaveholders, because we use the Amer
ican Post Office. It was, however, admitted
by our friends, if using the Post Office placed
them in the necessity of upholding slavery, it
was their duly to abandon the use of the
Post Office. Mr. Pierpont was asked if he
was ready to do this, and he answered. No.
And how else could he answer! There was
no way of escape.
The meeting in the afternoon was large
and spirited, occupied mainly with the same
question that had engaged the attention of the
meeting in the morning. Mr. Phillips was
the chief speaker, dwelling at large upon the
justice and the expediency of maintaining our
I present exalted position—“No union with
slaveholders.” Mr. Foster followed, but
called attention to the church, rather than the
i government. The afternoon meeting ad
journed from the Melodeon, to meet in Fan
euil Hall in the evening.
The meeting here was worthy of the time,
the place, and the holy cause of freedom
which it nret to promote. Charles C. Bur
leigh arid William 11. Cbanning were the
chief speakers. Their addresses were of the
highest order, sweeping along with them the
judgment and sympathies of the great audi
ence before theip. We hops to be able next
week to give our readers some of the excel
lent resolutions and other proceedings of this
Convention.
Speech of Hon. J. It. Giddings.
We have crowded out some original articles
this week, in order to lay before our readers
a part of the noble speech recently delivered
by this fearless representative in Congress.
In comparison with this speech how tame are
the speeches of the great Liberty Party
candidate, and how contemptibly cringing is
the course of the National Era. The Era
and its friends are always talking about its
latitude and the duty of using soft language,
to suit it. Why does not Giddings put in
the same plea He is in the same place,
and is liable to all -the abuse (a an Y
other professed Abolitionist i$ liable, Yet
without a word of cunoiliqtiqn, ho pours the
most scorching truths upon the naked hearts
of slaveholders, and is ready to take the con
sequences. Give us the man who is an
Abolitionist, rather than him who has but
the name.
TO CORRESPONDEDS
J. S. M., Port Byron. —The fault must be in the
Post Office.
W. 11. II.) Salem, Ohio,—Received.
C. F., Port Byron.—Received. Thanks for
good wishes,
V. N., Harvevsburgh, Ohio.—Received.
A. 8., Obsrlin, Ohio. —Received for \V. D.
w. C. C., West Eaton. —Received.
The Hutchinson Family.
The conduct of this talented family, in
singing a highly complimentary song to that
notorious manstealer, Henry Clay, when in
New York, two months ago, met at that'
lime, as it does now, our most earnest and;
unqualified condemnation. We deemed it a
palpable departure from all their former pro
fessions and practices, and a most cruel and
grievous wound to the cause of the bleeding:
bondman and though we were disposed to!
make every allowance for them on the ground
of their excitable and impulsive natures, we
could not but feel that in that transaction,
they had fallen from anti-slavery grace. It
was therefore with feelings of no ordinary
pleasure, that we witnessed their re-appear
ance at the recent anniversary meeting of the
American Anti-Slavery Society in New
York. We, in common with others, hailed
their presence and noble songs on that occa
sion, as evidence of their return to their
former position on the Anti-Slavery platform,
and took both as an expression of regret that
they had faltered and erred, in singing com
plimentary songs to Henry Clay. In this,
however, it seems we were mistaken. The
i Lynn Pioneer and Herald of Freedom, which
I seems to speak by authority, says, they
i meant no such thing, and couples our humble
j name with its declaration, in such a manner,
jas to.leave the impression that we sympathise j
I with him in this view of the case. It there-J
I fore becomes our duty to speak of this matter
again, though we had hoped that it was
settled to the satisfaction of all concerned;
I and are quite sorry that any further reference]
j to it is rendered necessary,
j It is a little singular that papers like the
Lynn Pioneer and the Chronotype, should
j seem anxious to make out a case of non-re
pentance for the Hutchinson family. The
singing in honor of Henry Clay, if we may
credit their former professions, is as much at
variance with their idea of Anti-Slavery duty
and testimony, as with that of William Lloyd
Garrison, Wendell Phillips, ourself, or any
other friend of the Anti-Slavery cause. It
seems to us that the course of these papers
is to be understood in the light of their strong
dislike of the American Anti-Slavery Society,
lather than in their regard for the honor, in
tegrity, and fidelity of the Ilutchinsons. The
occurrence at the New York meeting has
furnished them with another opportunity of
pouring out their venom.
The only point of difference between our
self and Wendell Phillips, relates to the
manner of receiving the Hutchinson family
into our meetings. He thought it necessary
to prescribe special terms, on which the pre- j
sence and songs of the Hutchinson family:
were welcomed into our meetings, whereas
we think that the constitution of the Society
settles that question, and leaves it out of the j
power of any member of the Society to say
who are welcome, and who are not welcome
on its platform, either to sing, preach, or
pray. It leaves each member to decide for
ujrij or herself, his or her fitness to sing or
speak in our meetings. We therefore thought 1
and said at the time, to some one near us, 1
that we regretted the course pursued by our
friend Phillips, and thought it would have j
been far better to have left each member
the .meeting to draw what inference he pleased
from the presence and songs of the Hutchio-j
sons. We are free to say, however, that j
our inference was substantially the same as I
that of Mr. Phillips. We took their songs j
as an evidence of their having ceased from j
doing pro-slavery evil, and a resolve to demote j
their powers to the cause of the slave. We I
may also add, that we believe so still; we
cannot but believe it, when two of their num-j
her, within the last ten days, assured us per-!
sonally that such was the case. How could
it be otherwise 1 The attempt of the Pioneer, 1
and the Chronotype to make the reverse
appear, cannot but do that family great
injury, and stamp them as popularity-seeking
knaves, rather than high-minded, honest, asd
devoted friends of the slave. If the view we
now take of this matter be not in accordance
with the views of the Hutchinson family, we
hope they will do themselves and the public
the justice of defining their own position, and
not leave it to Mr. Clapp or any one else to
do it for them.
Eastern Tour.
One of the most interesting visits which it
was our happiness to make during our recent
eastern torn, was to the house and home, or
the houses and homes of the Hutchinson
family in Milford, N. H. While in New
York, during the Anniversary week, we had
been invited by the family to make an Anti-
Slayery visit to their mountain home,”
with a view to stirring up the good people in
that region to their duties in respect to
slavery. We consented, and dropped a line
to them, stating that we should be with them
on Saturday night, and would lecture as
many times during Sunday, 28th May, as to
them might seem best. Accordingly, on
Saturday, having the good fortune to meet
with our good Anti-Slavery friend Loring
Moody in Lynn, we proceeded to Milford.
On arriving at the village, we scarcely knew
the place, such has been the rapidity of its
growth and improvement within the last four
years.
The Ilutchinsons are about a mile and a
half from the village, on the border of a most
beautiful valley,ten or fifteen miles in length,
and six or eight in width, surrounded by
verdant hills, forming just a nest of beauty
suited to such birds of melody. We found
Asa hoeing, Judson building a stone fpnce,
and John ploughing. To us this vyus one of
the most interesting sights which wo have
seen in a long time. Here were a pompnny
of the most popular vocalists in this country,
yhose songs despite the unwelcome truths
which they frequently contain, never fail to
draw a crowd of delighted listeners; whose
music is itself a fortune —to see such per
sons, possessing such powers, instead of
being out constantly seeking sordid gold,
which they have only to seek, in order to
find, deliberately working away on their
farms, \yrapt in the sweet associations of their
own mountain home, earning probably with
their hard toil, about a dollar per day, and
content with that; when,, by sinking them
selves to mere singers, and getting some city
notions about work, they might gain hun
dreds, is a most rare and interesting sight.
It was no make-believe this work. Their
hands were hard with toil; we felt them in
the hearty shake of friendship which they
gave ns. They ceased from their various:
labors only long enough to give us welcome,;
and then to work they went again. It was
just the treatment which put, us fully at ease
at their home, for it showed them to be men
intent on the happiness that waits on industry.
Mr. Moody and ourself held four meetings
in Milford on Sunday—one at ten o'clock;
again at half-past one another at four, and j
another at seven in the evening all of which j
were very well attended. They were realj
old-fashioned Anti-Slavery meetings, full of
life and spirit. In addition to our humble
advocacy, the Hutchinson family and another
interesting family of sweet singers, known
as the Dunbar family of the same place, lent
the aid of their inspiring music. We shall
not soon forget those meetings, nor the de
voted friends of the cause who did so much
to make our meetings successful. It was a
Sabbath day’s journey toward the heaven of
peace on earth, and good will toward men.
Cincinnati, May 20, 1848.
Dear Douglass Since my last, T have
held meetings in this city in Harrison-Street
Church, in Sixth-Street Methodist Church, in
Union Baptist Church, Baker street. Ad-;
dressed the Sons of Temperance in Sixth-j
Street Methodist Church on Sabbath evening
last. Delivered an address in Bakei-Street
j Church, before the members and trustees ofj
the Colored Orphan Asylum, on which occa-:
j casion a handsome collection of upwards of
sixty dollars was taken up for the support of.
j the Institution. On Wednesday evening lec
tured in Baker-Street Church on Thursday
1 evening, addressed the United Daughters,’'
1 a society having for its object the liquidation
1 of claims against the A. M. E. Church. Du
ring the intervals, I have been engaged solicit
i ing subscribers to the North Star.
i
I stated, in my last, the number of colored
residents in this city to be about 5,000, among
whom there is a great deal of real wealth. 1
consider the colored inhabitants of this place,
I so far as real estate is concerned, to be in as
1 comfortable a condition as any place I have
yet visited, either East or West. I speak
intelligently and knowingly when I say there
1 is a great deal of real estate possessed by col
ored people here. I had not the least idea of
it until I investigated. Among the real es-j
I tate holders in the city, many possess most
•j oxctdlent farms, and large tracts of land, in
different counties, several of whom I know, j
who possess from one to eleven hundred acres 1
|of land each. With the wealth possessed by j
j the colored citizens here, great tilings might
i be effected, if properly applied.
There are various mechanics among the
colored people, some of w hom are doing fine
j business. Among them I perceive extensive
smithing establishments, many carpenters,
shoe-makers, bricklayers, plasterers, and, in
deed, most of the mechanical trades, amply
demonstrating our capacity to take care of our
i selves. There are among the respectable me-;
chanics, none who stand more conspicuously
j than Henry Boyd, frequently spoken of, and
whose name is widely known among abolition-j
I ists. His establishment is on the corner of,
I Sycamore and Eighth streets, and is quite an I
j extensive furniture manufactory, lie gives:
constant employment to eight or ten hands inj
Iris established, and sells off his furniture as
fast as they can make it. Bedsteads are the
staple article, and these rate in prise from
'sß to $1,25. 1 saw in his furniture rooms j
some of the finest articles. Mr. Boyd, a few;
years ago, as you have noticed, was a slave;j
and now is not only able to take care of him-
self, but give constant employment to some;
five or six white men, (as well as. a number ofj
colored, there being both employed.) thereby;
enabling the.i> (the white men) to “take carej
of themselves.” Mr. Boyd, 1 believe, takes;
no active part among the colored people,
This I regret, as he might be very useful. He
is a subscriber to the North Star.
There is one colored gentleman who keeps
a fine confectionary and public saloon sev
eral who keep smaller saloons and places ofj
entertainment; several groceries of respecta-j
ble dimensions; and many who sell and;
trade in market. This is what I desire to
see—our people coming out of the old em
ployments of domestic servitude and menial j
occupations. This must be done if we ex-j
pcct ever to he elevated to an equality with j
the dominant class.
Of societies, there are some six, among
which tlie “United Colored American”
stands foremost, now numbering some three j
hundred members. It lias several branches,
and a grand head, all of which aic located in
Cincinnati.
There are five or six churches among the
colored.people, some of which are of the in
dependent denomination, and some are in
connection with the white church govern-j
ments. Of these, the Baker-Street Baptist;
Church, and New Street Methodist Church,
stand so connected, the former having its own
pastor, who is a colored man, the congrcga-j
tion possessing full ownership in the property,]
while the latter has a white pastor, and the!
church, if I mistake not, belongs to the white 1
Methodist Conference, There are also sev
eral Sabbath-schools; one, I believe, attaches
to each of the churches, ar.d I can bear testi-1 v
mony to the excellence of the one belonging
to the Free Wesleyan Church, Harrison st,
This school 1 found very interesting.
There is a fine school taught here by Mrs.
Eleanof Thomas, (formerly Miss Henderson,)
a young lady of acquired accomplishments, aj
student of Oberlin. Mrs. Thomas lias some'
50 or more pupils in hey school, all colored, of
course, and as she is herself of the proscribed
race, does credit to it as a literary teacher.
The High School, formerly under the
charge of Rev. Hiram Gilmore, I did not find
in the condition I expected, Aside from the
location and arrangement of buildings, I was
disappointed in many respects, The principal
school-room is above the True Wesleyan
Church, a fine building of medium size, on
Harrison street, entrance from the back yard, j
For the purpose of making room, an adjacent!
back building has been erected, but these, asj
well as the main apartment, have its accessby
a flight of high stairways from the yard,which
reduces the story; to a mere loft comparatively.
I should have no objection to this arrange
ment, had it been the result of necessity but
knowing, as I do, that it was selected as a
matter of choice, and that, too, in the neigh
borhood of so many pyeferable spots that
might have been obtained, as the purchasers j
had ample means, I cannot but give my dis
approbation to the selection of the place, as
not at all being such as would have been 1
made by any person who bad in charge a
High School for white children, instead o
colored. The location is an out-of-the-way,
back-ground place, and appears as though it
were chosen to hide the pupils from public
view. If it be argued that there would have
been a difficulty in obtaining a more eigible
spot for such 'a purpose, I answer, that the
success would have been as probable as that
i of the colored Orphan Asylum, in a fine
I central part of the city, and many of the col
f ored churches.
j The former pupils of the Cincinnati High*
r j School are not what I expected to find them,
i I here most cheerfully, almit that there has
t been some progress on the part of many, sev-.
1 eral ltttle misses having learned music—am
excellent accomplishment; and two or three
i youths, on whom particular pains has beem
xj taken, qualified to some extent in the useful
f branches of a business- education but the
most of them have learned comparatively
nothing. Instead of a substantial qualifica"
cation, such as I expected to find in these
3 pupils, a respectable knowledge of the ele
t ments of science generally, sorry am I to say
it, that the most of those that I have seen and
j examined, know but little about those branches
I of education.
Composition, or the correct construction ofi
sentences, appears to he foreign to the former
pupils of this High School. Many of them
now, after having finished” their educa
cation, as it is termed by many, when putting
their hand to paper, write as though there
was no such letter as a capital I. This I
much regret, and it-would appear as though
the greater part of the time of the pupils-
J was spent in preparing for exhibitions, which,
of course make great displays of seeming
qualification, whether or not there be any—
thing real. lam borne out in this opinion by
j the display of music on the part of many of
r the little misses, the whole of whom
1 play the same pieces, and when done with
these, go no farther. Besides, the parents
s of several of them quaintly observed, that
x their daughters were rather indifferent about
c music, although they had great talents for it,
(and certain, I can say they have in reality,
but the secret of tho matter was, that these,
f misses had been taught for the purpose of ex-*
hibiting in the school, and so soon as they hav.q.
J done with their exhibition excises, all i^
j done in the main.
1 expect here to meet a rebut on the part of
the friends of the school, but cannot help it.—
My mission is to assist in the elevation of the
oppressed and downtrodden of our land, in
order faithfully to do which we must speak
the truth and expose error, and this I shall,
do, though the heavens fall,”
I wish it not to he thought that I would!
not award to Mr. Gilmore what is due him
far be it from me, and I disclaim all or any
such intention. I thank Mr. Gilmore, most
heartily thank him, for the motives which?
prompted him, but really think that he fell far
short of attaining the object of his project, or--
even adopting the proper method for his at-.-
j tainmer.t. tn the estimation of Cincinnatians*
j generally, it was a very good colored school;
viewing it in the light of a colored school, it
probably >'as veiygood, not having it in my
power to determine what qualifies a colored'
school; but one thing I do know—it was very
far from being a good school.
Mary K. Miles, the accomplished young
lady who was induced to leave the East by
j Mr. Gihnoie, and come West to assist him,
did not get an opportunity to make herself*
useful, Mr, Gilmore having withdrawn from,
the school shortly after her arrival, it falling*
into the hands of ether principals. Miss Miles,
did not understand in coming to the West,,
that she was to hold an inferior position in the
female departments, but the arrangements ap
pear to have been made, and she had but to,
leave her situation or act as a mere monitor
She is a noble gial—a faithful friend of the
slave, and nobly has- she sustained her posi
tion. v
The High School! at present numbers fifty
pupils, and is under- tile- charge of Dr. Child!
j and lady, assisted by. tiieir daughter. I am.
in hopes they may tench, their children some
thing more substantial anefiuseful than mere
j exhibition displays* They are very fine peo—
pie, and no doubt will do their duty. There
is another school here,, taught.by Rev. Mr..
j Clemens, pastor of the True Wesleyan Chapel,,
a very amiable gentleman. This is said to be
in a prosperous condition..
I would call special attention to the Colored.
Orphan Asylum of this city. This is an in—
slitution got up through, the industry of the
colored ladies and gea-tleEaen,,in 1845, for the!
use ar.d protection of ’orphans rejected from,
participation in the State institution of similar,-
character. The ground ancLbuikling cost con
siderable, and much expense was. incurred in.
repairing and fitting it up. There are now four+-
teen of these little creatures,, thrown by
chance upon the cold charities of, the world,,
are able to find a good and cwmfoirt&bH* blame;.
The present matron is Mrs-. Bowler, the
relict of a brother to the Mr. Bowler, who is
at present, I believe a prominent, citizen of,'
Port-au-Prince, Hayti.
Although the institution is not in every pary.
ticular complete, yet it is well kept, neat and|
clean, and vigorous efforts are now being
made to establish a school department, book,
department, and in every other respect, make
it what it should be. The white citizens of
the place have been very liberally disposed,
toward the Asylum, and it has recently en
gaged Rev. W. P. Newman, a qualified and
talented gentleman, to act as Travelling Ft-,
nancjal Agent, who has recently returned
j front a tour, apd reported very favorably. A
donation occasionally fiom abroad maybe the
means of providing a home for some forlorn,
motherless child, and I ask through this me
dium, the friends of humanity at a distance to
remember the Colored Orphan Asylum of
1 Cincinnati, This claims upon
i the State, and it is a burning shame that the
Legislature does not make an appropriation
j annually for its support,
The colored citizens of Cincinnati have a
fine cemetery, which was consecrated with
ceremony by Rev. Samuel Lewis, on the Bth
inst’. I was to have spoken also on the occa
sion, but by some mishap, did not arrive in
time, but like the foolish virgins, found tho
“doors closed” when I arrived; or in other,
words, the ceremony over, and the people
coming away. This truly is a lovely spot,
I two and a»half miles from the city, on a beau
tiful Macadamised road, leading North. If
j was purchased by a company of gentlemen of
the United Colored American Association,
laid off in several hundred family lots, with a
reserved tract for promiscuous interments.
This is a most praiseworthy undertaking on
the part of the colored citizens and how
shameful the necessity of a separate burial
place for the dead America is drinking a
double draught of infamy
A most heart rending occurrence took
place in Covington,- Ky., opposite this city,
on Friday morning last, as follows A slave
holder named Mullin, back of Covington, in!
Grant county, sold to an infamous soul-driver,
by the name of Rust, a man, woman and
child, who were placed in Covington slave
prison—for such it is in reality—for safe
keeping, previous to his going down the
river. By some means the parents learned
that their darling babe, but twenty months
old, was to have been left behind. The fran
tic and heroic mother—God bless her !—asked
her husband for his pocket-knife, which was
veiy small—cut the throat of herwJhild —held
her neck to her husband while he deliberately
cut her throat—then—O! yes, then like a
man and a hero, deliberately cut his own
throat, but owing to the smallness of the
knife, did not succeed in quite taking his own
life. A noble woman —more deserving of
fame than the Queen of the Amazons, or a
Semaramis—worthy, thrice worthy to be as-]
sociated in history with the noble wife of As- j
drubal.' —Most noble man —a Virginias 1
the manly and heroic deed that thou hast
perpetrated shall live in the heart of every
true friend of humanity and lover of liberty! j
God grant that thy spirit may take its flight!
to realms beyond this nation of oppressors and
land of slaveholders, robbers of the dearest
social ties, and ruthless despoilers of the most
sacred family connection The names of the
.three whose precious lives were offered us a
sacrifice on the hallowed altar of liberty and
virtue, shall become the theme and palicgyric
of the poet, when those of the two infamous
-dealers, in human flesh shall only be remem
bered to be despised and deriderl.
Do you call this severity l “Oppression
maketh man mad
I leave here on Monday morning for Rip
ley, the residence of that faithful philantho
pist, Rev. John Rankin, where I shall hold
two meetings on Monday and Tuesday eve
inings returning back again on Wednesday,!
holding a meeting here on that evening, which i
I expect to be my last after which, I shall
pursue my course in a Northern direction j
through the State, visiting the best places in j
my route.
Yours, for God and Humanity,
M. R. D.
Political Creeds and Parties.
We Abolitionists, who are but onlookers at
the political strife and party jars, which are
now about to come to a crisis, can afford to
laugh at, aud sometimes even to pity the
grotesque and singular performances which
are every now and then got up by the diff'er
ent political parties, for the gratification of
the public. The election of a President is a
serious matter, or ought to be a serious mat
ter but after all, it is ridiculous enough, i
There is very little choice between Cass, and;
Clay, and Taylor they are all three the easy i
tools of the Southern oligarchy. Yet, what
a fuss is made about the election of this or
that man, who is supposed to be the avail
able candidate of the Whig or tho Demo
crat Vote the ticket! “Stand by your
party!”—“No disunion!” are the cries
that we hear on all hands. And how little,
in the midst of all this sound, and fury, and
hubbub, does the innocent adherent of these
parties know what is his own political creed
The party is the only thing that is in his
mind. He must go with his party, and vote
for the candidate appointed by his party.
To think or act for himself is entirely out of
the question. Everything must be under
stood at second hand, believed at second hand,
and done at second hand. The pious Roman
Catholic is asked the question, What do
you believe?” To which he answers, —“I
believe what the church believes.” What
does the Church helieve?” “The Church
believes what I helieve.” “And what do
you botli believe?” Oh,” says he, in the j
genuine spirit of unreasoning adherence, we j
both believe the same thing,” Probably)
nine-tenths of our patriotic party men, if
asked their political creed, would give a
not more explicit, satisfactory, or rational
answer. We are a glorious nation—free in
thought, free in action —a model republic!
Alackaday !—j. d.
Communications.
American Slavery—lts Effects upon
Universal Liberty.
Go, let us ask of Constantine
To loose his grasp on Poland’s throat,
And beg the lord of Mahmoud’s line
To spare the struggling Suliote;
Will not the scorching uiswer come
From turban’d Turk and scornful Russ,
Go loose your fetter’d slaves at home,
Thci) turn and ask the like ol us!”
Whittier.
When this Republic, in 1776, previous to
convulsion that rocked two hemispheres,
and resulted in placing her among the inde
pendent nations of tlje earth, declared, as the
.basis of her institutions, that all men are cre
ated free and equal and that this truth ad
dresses itself so plainly to t&e human under
standing, as to carry c,opvictiop of self evi
dence, and nngels caught it up and bore 4 to the
four quarters of the globe, bringing back on
their pinions the admiration ot a witnessing
worldthen it was that the oppressed and
toiling millions, groaning beneath the iron,
heel of tyranny looked to the young Republic
g,s the beacon-light of nations, the sun of
freedom that would ere long shed the genial
rays of liberty into every cavern and refuge of
oppression, They had hopes of the speedy
downfall of nqonopoly, and the establsihment
of Liipeyty, Equality, Fraternity.
Rut how ©rushed were those hopes when
they saw that what they regarded as the legi
timate child of freedom, was the offspring of
slavery and compromise that the cement of
the Constitution of this -“model Republic”
was the blood, and the cprner-stpne” of the
edifice the bones of negroes that it perpetu
ated n n institution and system of oppression,
pne hour’s endurance of which is more than
ages of that which its founders had dis
solved.
This faithlessness, or en-or of judgment on
the pert of freedom’s champions,” strength
ened the hands of tyrants, They would
point triumphantly and scornfully to the para
mount system of oppression in this country,
as an evidence of the incapacity of the people
to frame just and equitable laws for their own
government, and the Divine right of kings to
govern them; and' freedom's friends were
baffled to answer these questions, even satis
factorily to themselves They|looked through
the historic shades of the past —to Syracuse,
Athens, Sparta, and to Rome, and their ca
reer and fate seemed to support this argu
ment. Broken-spirited and bowed, they re
tired fiom the.contest. Russia grasped more
closely Poland's throat, and England riveted
tighter her pitcher-handled Union with starv
ing, though generous and liberty-loving Ire
land, till at last the spell was broken. The
mariners of freedom examined more minutely
the light by which they were sailing, and dis
covered it to be a false light. They exhibited
it in its true colors, until all over Christen
dom, from Gibraltar to Lapland, from Terra
del Fuego to Nova Zembia, might be seen
the rebuking representation of America, so
pathetically described by Henry Bibb, the fu
gitive slave—the stSrs and stripes streaming
from a lofty pole, capped by dame Liberty's
head-dress, over which was hovering the bird
of freedom with outstretched pinions. Upon
this banner, in letters of gold, was the broad
declaration, We hold these truths to be self
evident, that all men are created free and
equal, and endowed by their Creator with
certain inherent and inalienable rights; among
which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap
piness beneath this, a Democratic Christian
American, pointing to the above with one
hand, whilst] with the other he wielded
a blood-clottered lash upon a chained and
crouching negro.
Reader, this is not a fictitious picture. It
is not an Algerine scene. It is a picture—a
true picture—of the country founded by the
Pilgrim Fathers, ar.d made free” by
their sons in seventy-six. Americans, look
upon it, and ask,
Is this the land our father’s loved!
The liberty they toiled to win!
Is this the soil whereon they moved
Are these the graves they slumber in!”
Americans, are ye content to be a jack-o
lantern, leading the host of freedom astray
Do you reflect that you are individually and
collectively responsible for this state of things?
Do you remember that God is just, and that
his justice will not sleep forever ?—that right
eousness exaltcth a nation, and that sin is a
ioj.reach to any people
In the debate on Mr. Palfrey's resolution of
privilege, Mr. Stanton, of Tennessee, saiJ
that when the slaves were fully prepared to be
free, their master's arm will be as palsied to
keep them down as the arms of the monarchs
of Europe are to keep down the uprising
millions there. Does he mean to say, that
because the Irish and Poles have been unsuc-j
cessful in their attemps —like the slaves at the
South—to regain their freedom, they are un
prepared to enjoy it Does he recommend
his Southern brethren to hold on to their
slaves until, goaded to desperation, they (in
the language of G. B. Stebbins, freedom's
dauntless champion,) with their iron nerves,
made so by their incessant toil, seize upon
the very thunders and wield them in the de
struction of their delicate, lilly-fingered mas
ters; and regaining their plundered rights,
may speedy righteousness and restitution j
avert the dread calamity that Mr. Stanton
seems to contemplate so coolly.
Oh that an overruling Providence may di
rect their minds to the advice of the liberty
poet, Whittier, for the love of humanity
Oh rouse ye, ere the storm comes forth,
The gathered wrath of God and man,
As that which wasted Egypt’s earth,
When hail and fire above it ran.
II ear ye no warnings in the air?
Feel ye no earthquake underneath?
Up—up —why will ye slumber where
The sleeper only wakes in death?
Up now for freedom!—not in strife
As that your sterner fathers saw—•
The awful waste of human life,
The glory and the guilt of war;
But break the' chain, the yoke remove,
And smite to earth oppression's rod,
With those mild arms of truth and love,
Made mighty through the living God!
Down let the shrine of Moloch sink,
And leave no ti'aces where it stood
Nor longer let its idol drink
His daily cup of human blood j
But rear another altar there,
To truth, and love, and mercy given,
And freedom’s gift, and freedom’s prayer,
Shall call an answer down from heaven.”
Brooklyn, June 1, 1848. .T. C. H.
Haytian Correspondence.--No. 11.
Friends Douglass Delany More
than three weeks have winged themselves
away, with lightning-like rapidity, since I
last wrote to you and although no obtruding
business cares have prevented me, I have not,
until now, found sufficient leizure time to re
sume my pen. In truth, 1 have scarcely, even
yet, been able to arouse myself from the in
toxicating influence which my sojourn in this
Isle of the south has thrown around me.—
You are not to infer from thence that Port
au-Princc is a model of beauty and magnifi
cence, affording, with its glittering domes and
lofty minarets, a realization of the bright pic
tarings of oriental fiction. Far from it.—
When launching out upon the Atlantic, 1
left the princely city of New York behind
me, and found myself upon the broad waters,
out of sight of my native land,
Caelum untlique, et undique poutus,”
I had looked my last upon cloud-capped tow
ers and gorgeous palaces. True, there is a
pleasurable something in a view of Port-au-
Pripcej situated, as it is, in the bosom of its
ampiiheatre of Rills, with its long and regu
lar streets gradually rising in almost terrace
like gradations from the harbor to its eastern
extremity. And it is also indebted for a por
tion of the favor with which a stranger re
gards it, to the sense of novelty which he
experiences while gazing upon houses with
roofs abruptly rising to a peak, and long gal
leries oygrrhanging the side-walks. I3ut we
would search our bosoms in vain for that
feeling of awe and admiration which a con
templation of the old-world capitals is said to
awaken, by the combination of pilaster, and
shaft, and architrave in their architectural ma
gic—a magic to which many of the cities in
our own republic can pretend and although
there are quite a number of fine buildings in
this Island Metropolis, still, they only seem to
bring into bolder relief the saddening desola
tion which the ravages of time and fire have
produced. Yet, amidst it all, there still
breathes a spirit of former magnificence; and)
in the variously designed fountains, terraced;
promenades and public squares, neglected, we
read the evidences of an earlier and a brighter'
beauty. But if art and its achievements have
been suffered to languish into decay, and re
flect back no longer the borrowed light of
genius, nature, that requires no foreign aid,
j still revels here in untrammeled splendor and
j in the contemplation of its creation-dated ex-
I cellence, we forget to sigh over the perishable
results of human effort.
Well, indeed, does this lovely spot deserve
the appellation of its aboriginal inhabitants—
Ilayti—the Hilly and Well-Wooded Land
and right wisely have those into whose hands
it has fallen, restored to it the name bestowed
by its earlier possessors. As it was in the
j time when the smoke of its fishing-huts greet-j
j ed the eyes of the world-discoverer, so is it j
now—the same reinvigorating influence in its!
air, the same bright smile curling, upon its!
waters, and in its forest-glades, the same de
lightful commingling of music, beauty, and
perfume, that prompted the wild fancy of the
followers of Columbus to imagine an El Do-)
rado of wealth and immortality in the distant j
savannahs of the Floridas, or upon the coasts
of the Spanish main still,
The waves dash gaily on thy shore,
Fair Island of the Southern Sea!
As bright in beauty as when, of yore,
It blossomed a welcome to the brave Genoese,
Mho had left his dear home o'er.a stormy main,
To bring a new world ’neatli his monarch’s reign;
To reap the rewards of a monarch’s breath,
Honors and.praise, disgrace and death.
Basking in beauty, it doth seem
Like the bright picturings of a dream,
Which marks some snfiling infant’s sleep,
Ere it hath bitter cause to weep
O’er all the sorrowings and ills,
The guilty woes, the deeds of orimo,
With which man’s wayward folly fills
His life, e’en in its earliest time;—
As when the Grecian artist wrought
Upon a master-piece of art,
To form his ideal beauty, sought,
From various shapes, each lovely part,
And blent them in one glorious whole,
To charm the eye, transfix the soul,
And hold it in enraptured fires:
So seem the glad waves to have sought
From every place its richest treasure,
And bound it to this blessed spot,
To found hereon a home of pleasure—
A home where balmy airs might float
Through spicy bower and orange grove,
Where bright-winged birds might tune the note
Which tells of pure and constant love;
Where the earthquake might nurse into slumber
its force,
And the hurricane cease from its wrathful course;
V,'!:?: thy wave-nymph and dryad might find them
a home,
And the foot of the spoiler might never come.
lii fact, too much can scarcely be said with
regard to the beauty and fertility of this coun
try and the salubrity of its clime, varying, asj
you mount from the plains to its mountain-!
peaks, from the genial warmth of the tropics j
to the refreshing coolness of the Temperate
zone. Queen of Summer here holds her
perennial court, and scatters abroad her rich
est treasures with a most lavish hand. Every
plant that is calculated to administer to the
comfort of man every flower that can add!
'another hue to the brilliant pamre of Nature;]
every species of fruit that can charm the eye!
by its beauty, or gratify the palate by its!
taste,blossoms to beauty and ripens to perfec-!
tion in this region of eternal sunshine. Uven 1
in the rainy season, the clouds, as if loathe to
obscure a sky so transparently azure that the
I eye fancies it can almost penetrate into its
remotest recesses, or to cast a shade over a
sun which nowhere else shines with so much
lustre, generally gather their dark folds to-j
gether during the night-time, and the retiring
light of morning only shows the traces of
their generous labors in the freshened as
pect which the showers have imparted to every
object.
Nor are associations wanting to endear
these scenes to the heart of the philanthropist.
Every glistening hill-lop, every shaded glen,
has witnessed the wrongs of the bondman,
and his successful struggle with the oppressor.
Each has its appropriate note to add to the
anthem pealed by Bunker Hill and Lexington.
Yet those are not wanting w'ho can gaze upon
them and draw disparaging contrasts between
their piesent appearance and that which they
presented in the days of colonial servitude.—
It is indeed to be deplored, that the brake now
springs up too frequently where the.sugar-■
cane should wave, and wild flowers where!
the coffee-tree should flourish. But better
that than the bowed body, the crushed hope)
and the broken spirit. Rather than to look
upon the misery, and listen to the despairing
accents of one solitary slave, the lovers of
their race would gladly prefer to see the
present denizens of this Island sinking back
into the barbarism of their fathers and, in
lieu of the boon of civilization, hear the rude
music of the tambour and the gumbil, as it
marks tlnj fantastic measures of some Ashan
tee dance. Thank Heaven there is much
reason to be confident that they w-ill never be
called upon to witness either occurrence In
the liberal Constitution which Ilayti is pos
sessed of in the Chief who has been chosen
by her people in the confidence which is due
from that people to the man of their selection,
and in the reliance which is its appropriate re
turn, lies her hope of ranking among the first
of free, enlightened and prpsperous republics.
In the sincere trust that all which her friends
hope for her will be fully realized, I subscribe
myself,
As ever, yours, &c.,
HAROLD.
P. S.—l had prepared this letter to send
almost a month ago, but unfortunately I let
the vessel slip me, and have had no opportu
nity of forwarding it until the present. Since
it was written, some pretty serious doings
have place here, of which, probably,
you may have already heard. Perhaps I
may make them the subject of a future letter
—that is, when I can fully determine what
version of causes of this unfortunate affair”
is the correct one. So far, I fear me, that
those are only reaping the whirlwind who have
sown the wind. H.
Port-au-Prince, April 12, 1848..
Victor Town Board,
The oath-bound guardians of the sacred
rights of the people of this- town met at one
o’clock this afternoon, to act in conformity
to their high obligations, and giant indulg
ences to vice and crime. After very grave,
not to say prayerful, deliberations, these sage
civil fathers” came to the following pious
and patriotie conclusion in reference to the
several applicants for license to kill
For so much gold* we license thee
A draught to sell,
That bows the strong, enslaves the free,
And opens wide the gates of hell;
For ‘public good’ requires that some,
Since many die, should live by rum!.
There are hearts to break, there are souls to ruin
From the ways of peace to the paths of sin;
There are homes to be rendered desolate;
There is trusting love to be changed to hate;
There are hands that murder must crimson red,
There are hopes to crush —there is blight to be shed,!
O’er the young, and the pure and fair,
Till their lives are crushed by the fiend Despair! j
This is the liquor we equip you to sell,
Which curses the earth and peoples hell;
Which quenchefe the light on the inner shrine
Of the human soul divine!”
Wm. C. Dryer, L. C. Alysnorth, A.
Scramlm, A. Wilson and J. W. Peet, who
constitute the Board, were present oc
casion.
The presiding genius and master-spirit
among them, the man who made all the
motions, and carried his determinations thro’
or in other words, toioed the boat was W, C.
D., q kind of an antediluvian rumseller. He
said he had always lived in a tavern, had)
been brought up by the side qf q bottle.
thought ao. His fath e T» I believe, was a
liquor seller before him. So he got it in the
nat’ral way.” What’s bred in the bone
stays long in tile flesh.” He said “he was
a greater friend to the temperance causa than
I was, or Esquire Peet; that if he could have
his way about it, he would stop the making, j
importing and retailing of liquor; that he 1
would go for a law making it a penal offence
to manufacture, import or use intexicating
drinks 1 Many other nice things he said,
only did not,”) which are recorded in the
book of chronicles, such as calling a temper
ance fnember of the cause (J. W. Peet)
who would not go for license, a hypocrite,”
&c, This is the man who moved, and
through whose influence the board granted
license! Mr. A. hardly knew whether he
was in the body or not,” or under what
star” he reigned! He said he had read
the statutes over and over forty times,,
and yet he behanged”*if he could tell any
thing aboyt it. He was entirely at a loss to
know how to act. He confessed his ignor
ance, and said he had written to more eru
dite” heads for counsel on the subject, but
got no light! Whether we were under the
law of 1843, or the old law, or whether we
were without any law on the subject, he
could not tell. Under the old law, lie
said he was in favor of license; under the
law of ’43, he was opposed to any but tem
peiance license under the law of ’45, he said
iie was a no-license man under the present
state of things,hedidn’t know but he should be
obliged to go fur license, though he very much
regretted the state of the law which might,
impel him to that course And many otliet
erudite” things said he, too numerous to
mention. They may be found in the chroni
cles. When the scribe asked him if he would
vote license, he “kinder did and kinder
didn’t,” and the scribe, who understood it.
recorded his’ name fur license Mr. S. said—
wal, lie didn’t say much of anything. I
guess his mind was pretty much swallowed
up” in the mind of the grand scribe. When
he was asked by the grand worthy patriarch,
if he voted “license,” be kinder nodded yes, i
sir, and the scribe put down his name for
license!
The scribe then very delectably recorded!
his own vote for the same groat moral and
sublime purpose. Thus moralized and thus!
voted three of these sworn conservators of the
public weal
“O judgment! thou art fled to brutish beasts,
And men have lost their reason.”
Thus have these men voted, and that, too. 1
after the town has twice voted no license!
There were two members of the board who
exhibited some moral principle and decision
on the occasion, who opposed the action of the
majority, and nobly refused to vote a license
for so vile and ruinous a business, or give
any countenance to it, declaring that they
would sooner resign their office than be!
guilty of so great a wrong. They took a
common-sense view of the subject, and acted
with reference to the right and true. They
considered themselves as acting under the
law as amended in 1843, the law of ’45 only
having been repealed; that they wore
clothed with discretionary power; that Inns
for the accommodation of travellers might be
licensed as temperance houses; that taverns
or liquor houses were not necessary, but
were sources of corruption and crime that
they were under oath, and bound to act for
the public good, and could not therefore grant
license.
All honor to these men. Their action on
this subject will ever be to them a source of
satisfaction; and will secure for them the re
spect of true men. The others will probably
get what they wanted, and cared most for—
the favor and the votes of liquor men, and
those who go for party, liquor or no liquor.—
But what then? Ah! echo answers, What
then In the language of the Bible, “Shame
ful spewing shall be on their glory !”—lleb.
2d chapter. (Please read the whole chapter.)
These men have licensed three tqverns in this
little place, when one public house is all-suffi
cient. They have said, under oath, that
three liquor houses are necessary in this place!
Who believes any such thing They have
said, under oath, that the 'public good de
manded three rum taverns here Who be
lieves any such, thing? They have said, un
der oath, that the men they have licensed to
make drunkards, and idlers, and gamblers,
and profane swearers, and paupers, and crimi
nals, and widows, and orphans, are men of
“good moral character Who believes that
men engaged in such a work of demoraliza
tion and death, are men of good moral char
acter
What constitutes a man, a good man or a
bad man, but his deeds He that doeth the
will of my Father in heaven, is accepted of
him. By their fruits ye shall know them.
“O just God! let light divine
Break forth more broadly from above,
Till we conform our laws to thine—
The perfect law of truth and love.”
Victor, May 8, 1848. G. W. C.
Five dollars was the sum demanded.
The llutchinsons. —The Hutchinson fa
mily, we learn, says the New York Tribune,
are soon to visit the West—-at least they
intend to go as far west as Buffalo and there
about.
From the Western Citizen..
Caste among the Sons of Temperance.
In a recent number of the Albany Patriot,
we find a long letter from George W. Clarke,
the distinguished anti-slavery vocalist, in
which he brings to light an important fact
relative to the Sons of Temperance. It ap
pears that in 1844 Mr. Clark was invited to
talk and sing on the subject of temperance at
a Division of the Sons” in the city of New
i T ork; and being anxious to promote the good
cause, he accepted the invitation. In con
sideration of his services, he was elected an
honorary member, and afterwards a regular
benefit member, thus giving him a good op-1
portunity to become acquainted with the char- 1
acter and influence of the organization. But;
his impression seems not to have been at all j
favorable; and he has therefore made a public!
declaration of his unwillingness to co-operate;
with them. One reason for this course is his!
conviction that the order is founded upon,
the unchristian principle of caste —of preju-J
dice against color-—and will not admit colored j
persons.” g\.s this, position has often been j
denied, fie takes considerable trouble to esta-j
blish it by extracts from reports and letters.— i
Up shews that Samuel R. Ward, a well-j
known qqcj highly-respected colored minister,
and editor of ah anti-slavery paper, united
with a lodge of the Sons of Temperance in
Cortlandville, N. Y. When information of;
the fact reached the Grand Worthy Patri
arch in New York, he immediately suspended
the deputy of that district, and sent a special
deputy to inquire into the matter, who took
from the division its books, papers, docu
ments, &c., and, as one his reasons for doing
so, says they had actually initiated a colored
man!”—an act strictly prohibited by a reso- i
tion of the Grand Division.” In view of'
these facts, Mr. Clarke concludes his article j
by saying
“I was aware that the colored people of
this country had been silly enough to send to
England for a charter to organize themselves
into Odd Follows”—having been refused a
charter by tlieii countrymen in the United
States. But I was not aware that, after hav
ing excluded colored persons from the privi
lege of membership in the subordinate di
visions, the Grand Division” had actually
denied them the'right of organizing Divisions
among themselves Slaveholders, oppress
ors of men, unjust and cruel, arc received
with open arms. But a man with sable
brow,” however talented, just and pure in
life, is rejected Verily, one looks in vain
for a semblance of Christianity here. Alas
for the poor colored man He is excluded
from the State—he is excluded from steam
boat cabins and dining tables —he is excluded
from the schools and colleges—he is excluded
from the churches, unless he submits to the
degradation qf the infamous negro pew
He may, however, if he can, build his own
church, his own school but the Sana.,’ pro
fessedly a benevolent institution, yield to the
wicked prejudice against color, and descend a
step lower, not only refusing him the negro
pew’ in their temperance church, but deny
ing him the poor privilege of having one by
himself. 0 tempera, O mores!’
Rev. Mr. Slicer.
Correspondence of the Boston Atla
Washington, May 9th.
It is an abiding disgrace to the nation, that
such a man should be allowed to retain the
place he holds. The only effect of such a
religious teacher is to dishonor and to disgrace
religion itself. The truth of this has long
been felt and-acknowledged here by men of
all parties. So strong’is this feeling that the
committee of the House, who had the ar
.angement of the funeral services of Mr. Ad
ans, refused to permit Mr. Sheer to have any
part whatever in those services. This was a
signal and most significant expression of their
estimation of the man, and although the Re
verend rejected expressed much indignation at
being thus excluded, there was rejoicing
among all parties, when they heard of it. So
much is he despised by those around whom he
lawns and plays the toady.
Some tune since, there was some talk of
making a move for the abolition of slavery in'
tho District of Columbia. Mr. Slicer came
forward with a paper, to which lie solicited
signatures, praying for the continuance of
that blessing! It chanced to fall from his
pocket, and was picked up by some of the
colored citizens of Washington, who kept
it in grateful remembrance of Mr. Slicer,
whose name, if I am not mistaken, headed the
list..
About that time, the pulpit of the colored
Methodist Church in this city was vacant; and
was supplied, in turn, by the ministers of the
several churches in the neighborhood. When
it came to U.e turn of brother Slicer, the
members of the Church, both bond and free,
bearing in remembrance the interest Air. S.
had shown in their allairs, determined that
one holding such views of them as chattels, i
not men, should .ot enter their pulpit. lie
was accordingly met in the aisle by a strong
delegation of gentlemen of color, who very
civilly, but most distinctly, gave him to un
derstand that he could not be permitted to
preach to them. At first, Mr. S. was disposed
to take airs upon himself, and claimed the
right to preach to them, whether they
wanted him or no. But he soon found they
not only had a better appreciation of his fit
ness for the ministry than the U. S. Senate;
hut were determined to act up to their views,
and accordingly he made good his retreat and
stalked out of the church, without waiting for
their ungrateful hands to put him out.
Yours, tiuly, QUINTEN.
E. S. Hamlin, the editor of the Cleveland
True Democrat, is now at Washington City,
enriching his paper daily with the carryings
on” about the Federal City. He ’bays he
stood at the door of the Capitol, before" him
stood a crowd listening to a fervid oration on
the French Revolution, the band strike up the
glorious Marseillais
O Liberty can man resign thee 1
Once having felt’the gen’ruus llaine?
Can dungeons,bolts and bars confine thee,
Or whips thy noble spirit tame
Hush” says he, I hear a voice of wail
ing, I turn, and my eye falls upon a circle of
high walls from which comes that note of woe.
There, within its hated piecincts, a babe torn
from its mother's arms has just been sold to a
stranger from Georgia, and the mother has
just been bid off by another stranger, and is
J bid to depart for the sugar plantations of Lou
isiana. When she took the last lingering
look of that baby, she uttered that wail of woe. i
Hark, again 0, it is nothing but the lash j
applied to that mother's back, as she is bid to
hush her screams! She lifts her eyes to
heaven and longs for the angel of death to take
her from this world of suffering. I hear the
clinking of chains. Yonder go forty men
bound together and driven from the jail of the
People of the United States to the railroad
depot —some with grey hairs, some with vigor
of manhood, and some in the activity of youth
—all of them bowed down in spirit, and cast
ing their eyes for tho last time, upon the scenes
of their childhood and as they pass along,
nodding a last farewell to the mother that bore
them, and the kindred who are dear to them,
j And what is their crime that they should be
banished from country and kindred? Have
they shed human blood? Have they laid
prostrate their oppressors? Like the emanci
pated Frenchmen, have they overturned the
government of the country where they Jived?
No, no. All they have done is to make a peacea
ble effort to escape from oppression. Behind
them followed many weeping women and
children. Among their number are three sis
ters almost white. They are young and of
elegant form. They are members of the
church of Christ, and would keep God’s com
mandments. Their friends have striven hard
to save them, but in vain. Their value is es
timated too highly to be met by any of their
friends here. A young unmarried gentleman
from the South has just offered one
dollar's for one of them 1”
We have been reproached for putting too
much abolitionism in our columns.. But how
can we help it; can we read such as the above
and coolly and calmly pass it by wit hout thought
or feeling? How it is with others we do not
profess to know,but for ourselves we have no
pulse which heats in respondence to the infer
nal, Heaven defying system of Slave dealing
which prevails at Washington city; it is a
burning disgrace to the people of the North,
that they not only permit its existence but ab
solutely pay the board hills of Hope 11. SI tit
ters unruly Slaves, in the prison built with
the money drawn from the treasury ot the
United States.: Pittsburg JOaily Dispatch.
Address Qf Anti-Slavery Women of West
ern New York.
Under a deep and abiding impression of the
duty we owe to God and our fellow beings,
the AntkSlavery women of Rochester feel
constructed to continue to persevere in their
efforts for the oppressed and suffering bond
men who still remain toiling unrequited in the
Southern prison house. We ate frequently
brought painfully to remember that not only
is their labor wrested from them unremunera
ted not only do they suffer from intense hun
ger and cold not only are the females, our
sisters, subjected to the cruel and passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers hut there are daily instances of sun
dering the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can we expect any
thing better—can we look for benevolence or
fine feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery It would ha unreasonable,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit.” Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “Ail
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he calls
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, and concludes by tho forcible asser
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have done it toone of the
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto me.” We feel assured all that have
hearts to feel, and are careful to attend to the
nqonitions of conscience—all who are deter- j
mined to live for the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to their own per-;
sonal ease—all who feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, by pto
moting as much as possible the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forever
the demon of slavery from our land and in
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a light to the i
world.”
We hope no one will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
Christian’s influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid Of men and
of women ;we call on the old and the
young, the farmer, the mechanic, and the
merchant. We ask all and every one to give
us their help to d'evote what they can spare,
either of money or of the fruits of their la
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object, we propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the females in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur
nish tables, give us their company, and help
us, not only in selling those things thus pre
pared, but iu convincing the public mind of
the necessity of our perseverance and fidelity,
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of
emancipation.
Abigail Bush, Rochester.
Sarah D. Fish, do.
Sarah L. Hallo well, do.
Mart 11. Hallowell, do.
Sarah A. Burtis, do.
Margaret A. Larson, do.
Elizabeth Sully, do.
Piiebe Treadwell, do.
Charlotte S. Wilbur, do.
llulda Anthony, do.
Rhoda De Garmo, do.
Catharine G. Braitiiwaite, ’do.
Sarah F. Thayer, do.
Catharine A. F. Steebins, do.
Amy Post, do.
Henrietta Platt, Bath.
Susan 11. Doty,] Farmington.
Maria Wilbur, do.
Elizabeth Smith, do.
Esther Hathaway, do.
Caroline Halstead, Walworth.
Julia Parker, do.
Eliza Cooper, Williamson.
Amy Mott, do.
Rebecca M. C. Capron, Auburn.
C. G. Hamblin, Port Byron.
Margaret Prior, Waterloo.
Mary Ann McClintoce, do.
Laura Murray, Victor.
Mrs. Mackintyre, Darien.
From the National Era.
SKETCHES OF MODERN REFORMS
AND REFORMERS
N GREAT BRITAIN AJSD IRELAND.
Down, to the period of the trials of
Took®, Hardy, and others, for high
treason, and of the successful attack
then made by Mr. Erskine, on the
doctrine- of constructive treason, the
English law of treason was infamous.
Among other things, treason was de
fined to be, waging war against the
King, or compassing and imagining his
death, or the overthrow of his govern
ment. The law evidently contemplated
the doing of some act, designed and
adapted to accomplish these ends, i
But the construction of the courts had
subverted this principle, and declared
the mere utterance of words high trea
son. In the reign of Edward IV., a
citizen was executed for saying, he
would make his son heir of the crown,” j
meaning, as was supposed, that he
would make him the heir of his inn, j
called ‘‘the Crown.” Another, whose,
favorite buck the King had wantonly
killed, was executed for saying, “lie!
wished the buck, horns, and all, in the
bowels of the man who counselled the
King to kill it.” The court gravely
held, that as the King had killed it of
his own accord, and so was his own
counsellor, this declaration was imagin
ing the King’s death, and therefore;
treason! So it had been held, that
using words tending to overawe Par-
K&ment, was levying war on the King, i
and was therefore treasonable.
The times of which I write were
prolific of State prosecu i ms. Erski le
was the ready counsel of the proscribed
reformers of the last century, as Brough
am of this. His great effort on these
trials was to convince the court that
the juries had the right to decide upon
the character of the publication, in
making up their verdicts; or, in other
phrase, they were judges both of law
and fact. In this effort, he had many
a fierce conflict with the judges, when
with his usual courage, he braved
their rebukes, and challenged the exe
cution of their hinted threats to com
mit him for contempt. He always
argued this point fully to the court, in
the presence of the jury; and such
was his mastery over the reason and
the feelings, that he sometimes pre
vented a conviction, when he could not
obtain an acquittal. It was in an 1
affair of this sort, that he had a quarrel
with Mr. Justice Buller, a judge who
coupled double the imperiousness of
Mansfield with half his talents, and
whose frown, glowing out from under
his huge wig, has silenced many a bar
rister of more than, common nerve.
The respectable Dean- of St. Asaph,
who breathed the mountain air of j
Wales, published a clever political
tract, under the guise of a dialogue
between King George and a farmer.
Erskine went down to defend him.
Buller presided at the trial. Erskine
argued his favorite topic with more
than his accustomed ability. The jury
listened with absorbing attention; the
judge with impatient interruptions. He
charged furiously against the Dean,
and told the jury, if they believed he
published the tract, they must render a
general verdict of guilty. The words
of reason and power of the great bar
rister, and his piercing eyes, which
rivetted everything within their gaze,
went with them to their room. They
returned a verdict in these words—
Guilty of publishing only.” The
astonished judge ordered them out i
again, with directions to render a gen- j
eral verdict of guilty. Erskine inter-
posed, and insisted on their right to j
render such a verdict as they had. i
The judge replied tartly, and the jury i
retired. Again they came in with the
same verdict. The judge reprimanded i
them, while Erskine insisted that their i
verdict should be recorded. Buller i
retorted, explained his law to the re-
refractory panfd, and sent them out. i
The third time they appeared with the i
same verdict. The judge grew furious, i
and said, unless they rendered a gen
eral verdict, he should order the clerk
to enter it “guilty.” Erskine pro
tested in strong terms. Buller ordered
him to sit down. Erskine said he
would not sit down, nor would he allow
the court to record a verdict of guilty
against his client, when the jury had
rendered no such verdict. Buller hint
ed at commitment. Erskine defied
him. The jury were frightened, and,
in their panic, assented to a general
verdict of guilty. Erskine excepted,
and carried the case to the full bench.
But the day of triumph was at hand.
So clearly had he in his arguments ex- I
posed the iniquity of the rule, (if in-!
deed it was law at all,) and so pertin
aciously had he contested it on the
trial of the Dean, that Parliament
passed a declaratory act, (thus admit
ting that Erskine was right,) giving
jurors, in these prosecutions, the
power to render a verdict upon the
whole offence charged—that is, making
them the “judges of the law, as well
as the fact.” I need not say, that,
after this, prosecutions for seditious
libels became much less potent wea
pons in the hands of royal and minis
terial persecutors, and reformers
breathed freer.
It does the heart good to behold
talents like Erskine’s devoted to such
purposes. To see the foremost lawyer
of his time, in the midst of wide-spread
aristocratic clamor, and despite the
fulrninations of Kings, and Ministers,
and Judges, take the side of humble
men, who are denounced as incen
diaries, agrarians, levellers, French
Jacobins, traitors, and infidels, plotting
to murder their sovereign, upheave his
throne, and prostrate the altars of the
church, (and these are but a tithe of
the catalogue,) and for years perform
prodigies of labor for poor clients and
poorer pay, thus blocking up the
avenues to preferment in his cherished
profession, and all for the love he
bears the common cause! Such a
spectacle should go somewhat to blunt
the edge of those taunts so constantly
aimed at a profession which he adored
and adorned, and which, in every
struggle for human rights, has furnish
ed. leaders to the popular party among
the bravest of the brave. The law,
like every other profession, has its
scum and its vermin, and yields its
share of dishonest men. But they are
dishonest not because they arc lawyers,
but because they are scoundrels-, and
would have been so, had they chosen
to be merchants, physicians, or horse
jockies.
But we must leave Mr. Erskine, by,
saying, that he possessed ability and
learning to maintain the boldest posi
tions; eloquence for the most thrilling
appeals; imagination to sustain the
loftiest flights. He was graceful in
action, melodious in execution, and had
an eye of whose fascinating power
jurors were often heard to speak. He
was a wit and a logician, a lawyer and
a reformer, a man cast in the noblest
mould of his species.
Mr. Erskine was powerfully sustain
ed in his efforts for law reform by the
great liberal leader of the House of
Commons. Ciiari.es James Fox de
serves a conspicuous place among the
early reformers of England. Entering
Parliament in 1708, when just turned
twenty-one, he rallied under the banner
of Mr. Burke, then the chief debater
on the Whig side, whose lead he fol
lowed through the doubtlul contest on
American questions; and when victory,
and peace, and independence crowned
their efforts, the chief resigned the
standard of opposition into the hands
of his younger and more robust lieu
tenant. Fox is called the disciple of
Burke,” and after their unnatural es
trangement, he gratefully said, I
have learned more from Burke alone,
than from all other men and authors.”
He remained in the Commons till his
death in 1805; and although hampered
by aristocratic connexions and the
leadership of his party, his generous
nature and warm heart, through nearly
forty years of Parliamentary life, car
ried his great talents to the liberal
j side. He headed the forlorn hope of
English freedom during the panic fol
lowing the French revolution, and in
the darkest and stormiest nights of that
long and gloomy period, his voice
sounded clear and firm above the tem
pest, hurling defiance at his foes, and
bidding the few friends of man and
constitutional liberty who stood around
him, be of good cheer, for the day of
their redemption was drawing on. His
speeches against the stamp act, the
taxation of the colonies, the American
war, the test act, the suspension of the
habeas corpus, the treason and sedition
bills, the slave trade; and in favor of
Parliamentary reform, religious tolera
tion, Catholic emancipation, the rights
of juries, and of peace, contain vol
umes of liberal principles which endear
his name to the friends of humanity in
both hemispheres. As Erskine was
the first advocate that ever stood at the
English bar, so Fox was the first de
bater that ever appeared in its Com
mons. Burke wrote of him, after their
separation, I knew him when he was
nineteen; since which he has risen to
be the most brilliant and accomplished
debater the world ever saw.” His
argumentative powers were of the
highest order, and his wit, his invec
tive, and his appeals to the judgment
and feeling's unrivalled. In the parti
san warfare of extemporaneous debate,
he bore down on his antagonist with an
energy which, when fully roused, bor
dered on ferocity. But it was the fer
ocity of impassioned logic and intense
reasoning. Not content with once go
ing over the ground in controversy, he
travelled it again and again, unfolding
new arguments, and adding additional
facts, till his searching and vigorous
eloquence had discovered and demol
ished every objection that lay in his
tradk. The v >ry embodiment of the
reasoning element in man, lie saw
through his subject with rapid glances,
grappled sturdily with all its strong
points, despised mere ornaments, re
jected all bewildering flights of the
imagination, and shunned excursions
into collateral fields which skirted his
line of argument. In these latter
respects he was totally unlike his great
master. As his reasoning powers were
cast in the most colossal mould, so his
heart was of the finest and noblest
quality. Mackintosh has justly said,
that he united in a most remarkable
degree the seemingly repugnant cha
racters of the mildest of men and the
most vehement of orators.” His ap
peals to magnanimity, to generosity, to
integrity, to justice, to mercy, thrilled
the soul of Freedom, while the tide of
consuming lava which he poured on
hypocrisy, meanness, dissimulation,
cruelty, and oppression, made the
grovellers at the footstool of power hide
with fear and shame. He was a states
man of the broadest and most liberal
views. His capacious mind was stored
with political knowledge; he had deep
ly studied the institutions of ancient
and modern States; and no man better
understood the general and constitu
tional history of his own country, nor
the delicate machinery which regulated
its complicated foreign and domestic
affairs. As bold as a lion, he never
cowered before the King, his ministers,
or his minions; but gloried in being
the mouthpiece of out-door Reformers,
whose radical principles and humble
connections, prevented their admission
within the Parliamentary walls. He
repeated the coarse opinions of Cart
j wright and his companions, in a place
whose doors they were forbidden to
darken, but in language worthy the
classic scion of Holland House. He
j was of invaluable service to the radical
party, in gaining them favor with the
aristocratic and learned Whigs, be
cause he could throw over their prin
ciples the shield of argument, adorn
them with the grace of scholarship,
and dignify them with the lustre of
birth and station. In this regard his
conduct might be profitably studied by
his professed admirers on this side of
the Atlantic.
Mr. Fox was totally unlike his great
rival. Pitt was stately, taciturn, and of
an austere temper. Fox was easy, so
cial, and of a kindly disposition, Pitt
was tall and grave, and, entering the
House carefully dressed,walked proud
ly to the head of the Treasury bench,
and took his seat as dignified and dumb
as a statute. Fox was burly and jo
vial, entered the House in a slouched
hat and with a careless air, and, as he
approached the Opposition benches,
had a nod for this learned city member,
•land a joke for that wealthy knight of
the shire, and sat down, as much at
ease as if he were lounging in the bacls
parlor of a country inn. Pitt, as the
y adage runs, could “speak a King's
speech off-hand,” so consecutive were
his sentences; and his round, smooth
periods delighted the aristocracy of all j
parties. Fox made the Lords of the
Treasury quail as he declaimed in
piercing tones against ministerial cor
ruption, while his friends shouted
hear! hear!” and applauded till the
House shook. Pitt’s sentences were
pompous and sonorous, and often)
“their sound revealed their own hol
lowness.”' Fox uttered sturdy Anglo-
Saxon sense; every word pregnant with
meaning. Pitt was a thorough busi
ness man, and relied for success in de
bate upon careful preparation. Fox
despised the drudgery of the office,and
relied upon his intuitive perceptions and
his robust strength. Pitt was the greater
Secretary—Fox the greater Commoner.
Pitt’s oratory was like the frozen sta
lactites and pyramids which glitter
around Niagara in mid-winter, stately,
clear, ajid cold— like the vehe
ment waters which sweep over its)
brink, and roar and boil in the abyss j
below. Pitt, in his great efforts, only
erected himself the more proudly, and
uttered more full Johnsonian sentences,
sprinkling his dignified but monotonous j
“state paper style” with pungent sar
casms, speaking, as one having authori-j
ty, and commanding that it might stand)
fast. Fox on such occasions reasoned
from first principles, denouncing where
he could not persuade, and reeling un
der his great thoughts, until his excited
feelings rocked him, like the ocean in a
storm. Pitt displayed the most rhetoric,
and his mellow voice charmed, like the
notes of an organ. Fox displayed the
most argument, and his shrill tones
pierced like arrows. Pitt had an icy
taste; Fox a fiery logic. Pitt had.art;
Fox, nature. Pitt was dignified, cool,
cautious; Fox, manly, generous,brave.
Pitt had a mind; Fox a soul. Pitt was
a majestic automaton; Fox a living
man; Pitt was the Minister of the
King; Fox the Champion of the Peo
ple. Both were the early advocates of
Parliamentary reform; but Pitt retreat
ed, while Fox advanced; and both
joined in denouncing and abolishing the
horrors of the middle passage. Both,
died the same year, and they sleep side
by side in* Westminster Abbey, their!
dust mingling with that of their mutual)
friend Wilberforce; while over their
tombs watches with eagle eye and ex
tended arm, the moulded form of
Chatham.
Even an outline of the majestic
figure of Edmund Burke, which appro
priately belongs here, could not >find
space in this number.
H. B. S.
PHYSICAL. EDUCATION of GIRLS.
We copy from the New York Com
mercial the following excellent remarks
upon the proper education of young
females in order to insure their health,
and vigorous action even till age ap
proaches:
Shame on us, that we, who boast
of having raised woman in this nine
teenth century to the position in life
which she ought to hold, so educate her
that not one of her powers, physical or
mental, can ever attain a full and
healthy action. Better go back to the)
days of our great-grandmothei s and be i
content withJDilworth’s Spelling-book)
and Assembly Catechism—nay, better!
to far earlier days, when neither cate-,
chism nor spelling-book detained the
damsel from the distaff or the loom,
than rear for the coming generation a
race of nervous wives and sickly
mothers.
When the boy runs merrily after
his ball, or chases in. the race, or leaps
over the bound, the girl must walk de
murely in the garden,,because, forsooth,
running, and leaping, and jumping arc
ungraceful in the girl. When the,boy
roams freely over the hill, or through
the woods in the summer, or coasts
down the hill, or skates merrily over
the pond in the winter, the girl, un
trusted, unbenefitted, walks pensively
by the side of her teacher to the vil
lage, or takes a two-mile ailing in the
sleigh once in the week. She never
pitches the quoit, never throws the
ball, never slides down the hill, never
roams through the woods, because, save
the mark! all these are deemed unfein
inine. In fact, she never thoroughly
exercises her body at all, and in conse
quence soon becomes unable to endure
any kind of physical fatigue.
“‘Fit only for boys,’ said a princi
pal of a large female institute to me,
the other day, when I remonstrated
with him on the importance of these
and other like exercises for girls. For!
boys, indeed! And has not a girl a 1
physical system to be developed, and)
matured, and invigorated? Has she
not fatigue to bear, obstacles to encoun-;
ter, hindrances to overcome, enter
prises to carry out, duties to discharge?
Has she not the burden of life to carry
and its toilsome road to travel for her-j
self? In her own sphere does she not!
require, and will she not require thro’
life, all the energy, and strength, and
endurance of which her system should
be capable? It matters not whether
she is to live in the midst of fashion, or
to move quietly in the circles of country
life, or to find her lot upon missionary
ground, or to struggle against unfore
seen adversity, all that can be made of
her during her years of education, phy
sically, morally, and intellectually, she
will need. To every woman, in what
ever situation she may occupy, life is a
furt, stubborn, earnest, real, to be
shaped and moulded by her own ef
forts, or to be borne and endured by
i her own fortitude. Happy is she who
|is prepared for it, not by her own de
j spairing efforts in after life, but by the
judicious, careiul and thorough disci
pline of early education.
HOW TO KEEP OFF OLD AGE.
Intellectual culture is no doubt the
best and the strongest barrier which
the young can rear against the insidiu
ous advances premature old age.—
Mental discipline is eminently healths
ful and life-sustaining. We speak not
of excessive application, but of diligent
and persevering culture and exercise of
mind. Ihe following remarks on the
subject, by the Rev. Mr. Winslow, are
commended to the consideration of all
concerned, and especially to young la
dies
The premature old age observed in
the appearance and infirmities of many
ladies in our country is not flip result
of too much study. We do not begin
to study in this country as they do in
Germany, nor as many do in England;
and France. It is a common tiling!
among the educated ladies of Germany,
to find those who can read and speak
three or four different languages andj
are extensively versed in mathematics!
and natural philosophy.
It is clearly proved, that the high
cultivation of the intellect is favorable
to protracted usefulness and long life.j
Highly educated men and women, «n
an average, live longer, and enjoy J
more even and pure health, than those*
of little or no culture. The mind is!
life—the very essenceoflife, and where]
there is most of that it imparts life arvdl
vigor to the body. It is believed that
thousands in this country annually die
some twenty years sooner than they
would, had they bestowed a higher cul-i
tivation upon their intellect. We must
be more intellectual and less sensual
more of what dies not, and less of that]
which dies—if we would invigorate and I
prolong whatever of us is immortal.—!
It is said to be better to wear out than
to rust out. The truth is, after all, I
very few in this country can claim the j
honor of wearing out, intellectually;
but hundreds are daily dying through
mental rust. Why does the man of’
business languish and die so soon on j
retiring to enjoy in idleness his gains?]
Just because the life-giving power, the;
mind ceases to act. Rust, stagnation,;
disease, gloomy spirits, and death,
must inevitably come. The perpetual
tug and excitement of business, as it is
done in this country, frequently over-]
task and break down the mind; not
so much by the intellectual labor as by
the excitement attending it. Now the
study of the languages, sciences, &c.,
and the putting forth of the mental en
ergies in the form of written thoughts
for the world, afford just that kind of
mental effort which is most favorable to
long and vigorous life. Accordingly,
literary and scientific men are, as a
class, long lived. If our females would
give up their dissipations, renounce
their novels and their indolence, put
away their inglorious rust, and their
vain-glorious excitements together, and
rise higher in the scale of intellectual,;
thinking, spiritual beings, they might
secure to themselves and to their cbil- j
dren a far more healthy, youthful, pro
longed earthly existence, than most of
them now enjoy.
AN liNGLASII LANDSCAPE*
The landscape at last began to as
sume a more distinct character; the
footpath carried him over the top of a
steep little hill, and at his feet, amid a
group of tall lime-trees, the hoar tower
of a very ancient country church was
to be seen rising. Wains were now
heard rolling at no great distance—the
voices of children at play reached him
next: it was evident he was approach
ing a village. The footpath led him
once more over a style, and then ter
minated in a pretty wide road. A rather]
considerable- pond of water, out of
which some huge cart-horses, relieved
from plough, were splashing; the
screams of geese, flapping their wings
when thus disturbed, and flying over
the wide greensward that bordered the
road; an open gate leading into a large
foldground; and an extensive orchard
of apple, pear and cherry-trees, showed
that he was coming upon a large farm;
and lie had proceeded only a few paces
further when lie saw the house before]
him. It was one ofnhose old-fashioned
farm-houses which had evidently once i
been the dwelling of some considerable
family, the manor-house belonging to
some large domain. The building was
of timber, and the huge beams painted
red, with the intervals white; and the
long roof was terminated at each end
by immense gables, very richly orna
mented with carved weed, and in which
were some fine old oriel windows; and
the peaks and points of the rest of the
building might be seen towering above
the roof, interspersed with quaintly or
namented and twisted chimneys. The.e
was a very handsome old porch adjoin
ing the centre of this front, and before
it lay an old-fashioned garden, which
reached to the road, from which it was
separated by thick and closely-cut
yew hedge, ornamented at the corners
and along the sides with pinnacles and
other devices of topiary work. A few
low walls, covered with trained fruit
trees, divided this garden at regular in
tervals, and a straight gravel walk ran
up the middle to the door, cutting these
walls at right angles, and with a flower
border on each side, filled with common
but gaudy flowers, sweet peas, lupines,
lychnises, roses, and so on. The gar
den was very gaudy,with polyanthuses,
auriculas, narcissuses, tulips, and all
sorts of gay spring flowers, and seemed
to extend to the other side of the house,
where the trees ©f a second orchard
were discernible. There was a huge
mastiff’ asleep before the porch. The
foldyard might be seen from the road,
and all sorts of rural noises were to be
heard proceeding from it—poultry cack
ling, doves cooing, pigs grunting, and
cattle softly lowing; little calves were
running about, and a great many men
and boys busily occupied here and
there: all the activity and stir of a very
large farm going, on.— Angelia, by the
author of Emilia Windham.
THE MOCKING BIRD.
This extraordinary bird is peculiar
to the new world, inhabiting a con
siderable portion of North and South
America. A warm climate and a low
country seem most congenial to their
nature; they are accordingly more nu
merous in the Southern-than in the
Northern States. The berries of the
red cedar, myrtle, holly, gum berries,
gall berries, and a profusion of others,
with which the luxuriant swampy thick
ets of those regions abound, furnish
them with a perpetual feast. Winged
insects, also, which abound there, even
in winter, form a favorite part of their
food.
The mocking bird builds his nest in
different places, according to the lati
tude in which he resides. A solitary
thorn bush, an almost impenetrable
thicket, an orange tree, cedar or holly
bush, are favorite spots. Always ready
to defend, but never over-anxious to
conceal his nest, he very olien builds
within a small distance of a house, and
not unfrequently in a pear or apple
tree, rarely higher than six or seven
feet from the ground. The nest is com
posed of dry twigs, weeds, straw', wool
and tow, ingeniously put together, and
lined with fine fibrous roots. During
the time when the female is setting,
neither cat, dog, animal or man can
approach the nest without being at
tacked. But the whole vengeance of
j the bird is directed against his mortal
j enemy, the black-snake. Whenever
this reptile is discovered, the male darts
upon it with the rapidity of an arrow, I
dexterously eluding its bite, and striking
it violently and incessantly on the
j head, where it is very vulnerable. The
i snake becomes sensible of its danger,
and seeks to escape; but the intrepid
l] bird redoubles his exertions, and as the
snake’s strength begins to flag, he
seizes and lifts it up from the ground,
beating it with his wings, and when the
business is completed, he returns to his
t nest, mounts the hush, and pours out a
torrent of song in token of victory. So
tj perfect are his imitations of other birds,
1 i that a listener would suppose the whole
feathered tribe assembled together for
i a trial of skill.

J CHINESE FORTUNE-TELLER.
The fortune-teller is a cunning ras
ljcal; he is seated under an awning, be-
fore him bis magic mirror, hooks, pen-
M cils, ink, &c. So intent is he on his
studies, that the vociferations of a coun
try-looking bumpkin, which have at
traded a crowd of gazers, have failed
to awaken him. Slowly he rouses him
self frorp the trance of his meditations,
3 and with a mysterious shudder and start
"j he excuses himself hastily, shuts his
tj book with an air, talks of the spirits
having deceived him, in causing him to
believe that a poor man, destined to
fill a high office, humbly awaited him at
the gate of celestial bliss; is much sur
prised when his clownish customer calls
t upon him to unfold his prophetic powers,
and relate what heaven may have in
i store for him. Having asked him ifhe
1 is sure they have not met before, which
I question confirms the bumpkin in the
opinion that he must have been the
cause of this extraordinary vision, he
places a stool for him opposite, and then
j commences the divination of. futurity.
After asking a few questions, he places
his mirror so as to reflect the heavens,
i and inscribes thereon certain mystic
signs, these he continually changes
(having, referr ed to a number of books
j and talking all the time aloud,) writing
I now and then on a slip of paper; he at
last fills up all he requires, and hands
it to the delighted and deluded simple
ton then falling into a reverie awaits
the arrival of another, who is not slow
in arriving.; one fool makes many, and
the tradd is a one.— Forbes's
China.
TIIE BEST KIND OF EXERCISE.
Of all kinds of exercise, walking is
that which is the most universally at
tainable, and at the same time the best, f
Calling so many muscles into action,
and especially those of the lower ex
tremities, of which the circulation is apt
to be more languidly and imperfectly
performed, from Hhe degree of resist-!
since presented by the force of gravity
to the return of the blood to the heart
—calling, moreover, so much of the
moving apparatus of the body into re
ciprocal and balanced action, flexor and
extension muscles being corresponding
ly exercised—walking is undoubtedly
the best of all exercises for the pur
poses of health; independently of its
secondary, and by no means little use
ful effect, of carrying tHe respiratory j
organs into freer and purer air, and
exposing the system to the extraordina-
ry, and, at least in the colder and tem
perate countries of the earth, the
healthful influence of the direct rays of
the sun. The degree of the exercise
must, of course, vary with the age j
condition, and habits of the individual;
but the decree of exercise that is in
O j
most cases servicable, is generally
much linden ate d. Two miles a day is
the minimum distance which a person of
moderate health and strength ought to
walk. If the powers of the system in
crease, or are stronger to begin with,
the minimum ought to be four miles.—
The object should be, in most cases, to
walk the four miles in an hour; and the
invalid beginning perhaps by walking a
mile, or a mile and a half, in an hour,
might gradually increase his rate of
walking, until he had accomplished
this end. Quick walking calls more
muscles into action than slow walking
does, and is therefore better. The
muscles of the back and trunk, neck
and arms, are comparatively very little
used in walking. A person can hardly
walk quickly without using them to a
very considerable degree. It is a
maxim so sound and important as to de
serve frequent repetition, that the
greater the number of muscles used,
the more advantageous will he the
exercise. The majority of people are
wont to think too much of the other
kinds of locomotive exercise—as car
riage exercise, riding on horseback,
and sailing—too little of walking. Rob
inson on Diet and Regimen.
TIIE CUP OF COLD WATER.
A young Englishwoman was sent to
France to be educated in a Huguenot
school in Paris. A few evenings be
fore the fatal massacre of St. Bartholo
mew’s Day, she and some of her young
companions were taking a walk in some
part of the town where there were sen-
tinels placed, perhaps, on the walls;
and you know that when a soldier is on
guard he must not leave his post until
he is relieved, that is, till another sol
dier comes to take his place. One of
the soldiers, as the young ladies passed i
him, besought them to have the charity j
to bring him a little water, adding that
he was very ill, and that it would be as
much as his life was worth to go and
fetch it himself. The ladies walked on,
much offended at the man for presuming
to speak to them, all but the young
Englishwoman, whose compassion was
moved, and who, leaving her party,
procured some water, and brought it to;
the soldier. He begged her to tell him
her name and place of abode, and this
she did. When she rejoined her com
panions, some blamed and others ridi
culed her attention to a common soldier; j
but they soon had reason to lament
that they had not been equally compas
sionate, for the grateful soldiercontriv
ed, on the night of the massacre, to
save this young Englishwoman, while
all the other inhabitants of the house
she dwelt in were killed.