shackfords lecture on the
war with mexico.
[toncluded.]
the false and foolish idea that slavery
is, or ever has been, profitable to the
north, seems about to be met by the
p» •evidence of god, revealing in loss'
and disgrace, iu far spreading ruin and*
failure, that a violation of nature’s law
of justice, must suffer its just reward.
it is tints permitted that the success
of evil shall be its puuislimcnt. and
instead of triumphing, could we sec j
aright, we might, 3s true patrums,
rather he called upon to mourn, at ev
ery victory that has been won upon a
foreign s >il.
\vc are but just entering upon that
state c*f retribution, which is not arbi
trarily induced, but advances step by
step, through tnc instrumentality ol’|
blinded and willing agents. one yawn
ing gulf after another opens before,
so gradually, so imperceptibly, that the
rash and thoughtless know their dan
ger, only when danger has become a
dreadful reality. the prophet is not:
listened to. lie whom i have before
quoted, said, with a warning foresight,
if by our advances we put the colo
nies of england m new peril, w ith what
face can we oppose her occupation ot
cuba? suppose her, with that magni
ficent island iu her hands, to command
the mexican gulf and the mouths ot the
mississippi; will tbe western states
find compensation for this formidable
neighborhood, in the privilege of hood-1
ing texas with slaves?”
there is here a subject of fearful
import. it acquires an aspect of reali
ity when we consider our present con
dition. those straws which show
which way the wind blows,” may be
seen floating by in the air. already is
there talk of the power of england in
the gulf, which is to be made a lever
for action, in the same manner as in
the annexation of texas. an article
in a leading new york paper, not long
ago, mav give us food for reflection in
coneection with this. tbe writer says;
“we express a settled conviction, when
yve say that, excited as the military
spinl of the country is by the war with
mexico, and confident in the prowess
of her arms, a war w ith england in a
purely national quarrel, would be wel
comed by all the stirring blood of the
republic, and that a rail for volunteers
in such a war, would bring into the
field such a host as has never before
been marshalled under the american
banner; eager for combat with foemen
worthy of their steel, and on fields
where pestilence und climate wage not
their unequal, obscure, hut fatal war- j
lure. looking then as we do with cer
tain assurance upon the near probabiii- j
ty of a war with england, we are most
unwilling t her acquiring such a
fo *t!i dil in th gulf of mexico as the*
*—*i if c itia would give her.
a ad we have the most entire c-nvic
tiou, that any attempt on her part to
acquire that colony, would furnish the
clearly national ground of quarrel,
which would unite the people of the
hutted stales in opposition to her pro
ject”
now, with the •existence of slavery j
j n our country as a controlling power;
with standing army, a military spirit
among the nation, and an ambitious
demagogue to play upon the passions
of the people; with the false notions of
patriotism that now prevail; with the
doctrine that once engaged in a war, no
matter for what cause, or how brought j
about, every lover of bis country must
aid the executive in prosecuting it to 1
the end, according to his direction,— a j
war, with some of the old nations of the
world, is us certain as the law of gravi
the north star.
tation in the pfa/mcal universe. bu
in whatever form retribution cornea
whether war with england, or amonf
ourselves, it matter* not; sufficient thai
it has always come, and mail come con
tinually, if there is a god. we do nol
believe this till it comes upon ns; bui
this does not alter the facts.
who, ten yearn ago, would hare be
lieved what is now tha tact? who
would not have said to him who should
have declared the history, word foi
word, event for event, rota for vote,
and battle for battle—who would not
have said, what, is this nation a
dog? it cannot so soon become cor
rupted by the false maxims of despotic
governments; it cannot so render itsell
the reproach of the humanity and true
civilization of the world. 1
but so it is. in this age of improve
ment, and of lofty ideas, when every
thing seemed looking to the blessings
of peace and a higher civilization;
when lovers of their race were seeking
how they might break down the bar
riers of national antipathy, and spread
the blessings of peace, and cement the
bonds of a universal brotherhood
when the principles of co-operation and
love were beginning to obtain a place
in the hearts of the rising generation;
when christianity, in its practical
truths, seemed about to descend into
the lives of men, and shed abroad its
healing and ennobling influences, we
find ourselves engaged in a foreign
war, the end of which no one can dis
cern.
its consequences, now beginning to
be felt, will cast a long shadow upon
our future, even if peace were now es
tablished. its burdens must fall event
ually on the people, the toiling hus
bandman, the' laborers for wages, the
mechanic, the artisan, those who work
for their daily bread, and earn that
bread by the sweat of manly brows,
and the weariness of female hands;
upon these must fall, at last, the heavy
burden. out of the free labor of the
north must come the means to pay
these heavy debts. hand and foot are
we bound to serve our ma.-ters, unless
the soul of freedom once more comes
to dwell among us, and her angel
wings fan us, and wake us from our
drowsy sleep.
a traditionary freedom will not save
us. it will not do to praise onr fathers
and build their sepulchres. worse for
us that we have such an inheritance, if
we spend it foolishly, and are unable
to appreciate its worth. sad for us, if
liaving served as the scaffolding only
:o the glorious temple of universal free
lom, wc should be at last pulled down.
sad, if the genius of a true humanity,
leholdingws witbtearfol eyes from the
nount of vision, shall fold his wings in
lor rowing pity, and repeat the strnin, i
oh land of washington, how often
vould i have gathered thy children to-'
»ether, as a lien doth gather her brood
indcr her wiags, and ye would not! f
dchold your house is left unto you des
>late.”
but a moral deformity yet more
lidcous, is revealed to us in this war. i
mot only do we see indifference, and a
vrong estimate of greatness, but a
positive assertion of principles subver-!
sive of every principle of righteous
ness, and indicating that lowest stage
if degradation, that degree of spiritual
blindness, which, groping about in the
light of noon-day, sees not; and walk
ing boldly in the darkness of midnight,
lighted by an internal fire of selfish
lust, claims to see. this war has been
defended, and is upheld by many, on
the ground of anglo-saxon superiority,
and the extending of the area of
freedom.*’ it is our destiny, it is said,
—so it has always been, and so must it
he, —that the stronger shall overpower
the weaker, and the cause of humanity
must progress, if need be, through
bloodshed and ruin, through the de- j
struction of that which is ready to 1
perish;” and it is the plan of provi
dence that the blood of the strong and
young shall be infused into the old and
weak, and thus shall advance the cause
of human progress.
i need not remind you, that when the
fiat of the southern slaveholders, who
have controlled the destinies of this
country, went forth that texas should
be annexed, many of our northern
politicians, who had hitherto opposed
this measure, dropped all their opposi
tion, and were found shouting among
the loudest, for the lone star of free
dom.** they made a virtue of a pres
sing necessity, and while the leading
advocate at the south was upholding
the measure in the eyes of the world
as absolutely needful for the preserva
tion of “peculiar domestic institutions,” j
his followers at the north were putting
forth this plea of “extending the area
of freedom.” and uuder this mantle,
the attempt is made to hide the evil
of this war, following as a necessary
consequence of the first "extension of
the area.**
how can we characterize aright
such a fatal blindness to all the princi
ples of right and justice! how cause
the light to shine into that eye which
has reached this mage of total blind
ness! how argue, when the shallowest
of sophistry suffices to justify the worst
of crimes!
it is a glorious thought that the all
merciful creator overrules for good the 1
sins and errors of his creatures and
in his all-embracing love, make's the
very wrath of man to minister to his
praise. glorious vision, to look back
upon the wrecks of ambition, passion,
crime, and folly, and behold over theta
all, and through them all, advancing
the cause of humanity and love. la
spiring hope, to look forward into the
future, and rejoice that in spite of «jj
that wickedness and injustice can do,
—the intrigues of the selfish, the cor
rupt ambition of the demagogue, the
right is of no sex—truth is of 50 color—god is the father of us amd we are brethren.
t pliancy of the thoughtless, end the
stubbornness of the self-willed,— in
spite of all, truth and justice and tore
shall triumph, because these are of
god, and tle kingdom of god shall
cornel
but, rofontarily to make use flf war
and slavery as instruments for good, to
hsnd men together for slaughter, to join
in the exulting shout as ranks of broth
ers are moved down in ln let
loose t£e dogs of war,” to awaken the
lust of conquest, to set at naught the
commands of god and the common
bonds of simple morality, in supply
the means of destruction and of death,
to look approvingly upon the mighty
iniquities of a conquering foe, and
urge on the instruments of vengeance
and of blood—to do all this in the name
of freedom and of god, leaves no
deeper gulf in the abyss of evil! is it
then come to this, that might does
make right?” go thou who makes!
thus thy infamous plea, and join the
conquering hosts of roman valor.—
join the despoilers of poland, and the
armies of nicholas in the mountains oi
circassia. yea, go to the deck of the
brazilian slave-ship, manned by ame
rican sailors, and tear from his country
the poor, degraded congo, that he may
be nursed in the bosom of modcra
civilization, and be raised in the scale
of humanity. the law will call yoi
pirate! but what of that saytothf
rose-water moralist and soft-heartcc
philanthropist, that you are on th(
crusade of freedom and righteousness
and let the cap of liberty be born<
aloft before you, and bear the angeli<
host raising the exulting anthem, glorj
to god! ay, go to the mount of cal
vary, and take thy place, not with th<
weeping women, who look up with tear
ful eyes, and mourn the death of th<
son of god; not with his fainting disci
ples, who far off mourn their master*!
loss; but join the crovrtl who wag tbeii
head in triumph, and offer the lasi
piercing spear, because, through hi:
death, in the blessed providence oi
god, shall come the salvation of s
world!
he who with claim of far-seeing
statesmanship or exaltation above vulgai
estimate, defends this war on the gjound
of the good that will redound to the
cause of human progress, would con
sistently be found among the murderers
of the prince of peace. there is no
crime or wrong in the whole catalogue
of iniquities, which might not thus be
justified. the old man who can no
longer use or enjoy his wealth is not
safe, because if he is removed, the
plans of providence to diffuse bis riches
will then be answered; and so it is
right to murder him. how much more
worthy of the statesman of this age,
the motto, “no politicrl change is
worth being purchased by a single drop
of human blood!” the philosophy of
carnage and of the battle-lield, is rude,
and worthy of the restless age of boy
hood of the human race! in that
school, alexander, caesar, were as
wise as we are, and “the man of des
tiny” should be our messiah! we must
turn back the tide of god’s advancing
flood of troth, erase the long list of
peaceful, godlike heroes, and, to take
a broad philotopkical view, go to the
means and instruments of the new
zealand savage, gifted with the light
of modern science in strategy and en
gineering! deeper is the response
from every heart to the words of the
poet:
the roßfl the human hein; travel*,
that, on which ble*«in§ comes and goes, doth follow
the river’s course, the valley’s playful windings.
curve* round the corn-field and the hill of vines,
honoring the holy bounds of property
there exists
a higher than the warrior’s excellence.
the vast and sudden deeds of violence,
adventures wild and wonders of the moment,
these are not they that generate the calui,
the blissful and ll»e enduring mighty.”
to strike, to fight, to progress by
prowess of the hand and arm, are but
external means, the relic of that beast
ly nature which we leave behind, as we
ascend the heights of wisdom and of
love, in which alone true power re-
sides. it is but shallow vision to see in
these means the substance. it is but
shallow to overlook the mightier ener
gies that belong to industry, to the pow
er of up-building labor, of peaceful
efforts for the good of man. war is
but a vulgar instrument of destruction,
and constructs nothing that shall last
for the good of the race. war can
subdue men, so that they shall remain,
while force is over them, the slaves
of foar; but never yet made a co
operative friend in him whom h at
tacked.
who, with the opening career re
vealed to this age, of discoveries in the
realm of nature, —in the heavens
above and the earth beneath,—the won
ders of interchange of thought and the
conquest over space and time, and the
rude elements which annoy (he savage;
the increased means of blessing through
all the outbranchiog streams of social
life; the new avenues open to ambition,
the restless explorer, and the busy
planner;—who, with this vision, denied
to the dweller* of an earlier age, could
have looked for a return to the worn
out maxims of godless politicians, and
the renewed employment of a shallow
means of action, carried out in com
plete perfection, only among the more
degenerate races of mankind?
it is indeed strange, and the blind
ness itself seems hot a part of that re
tribution, which continually attends all
human deeds. that is the last stage,
which defends itself and will not see its
evil, bat glories in its shame) which
doeth evil on the plea that good may
come.
bat good will coae oat of it, will
there anti” undoahtodly.
itinrwilmfcm. if ifn f-mfra nr mitt torn
bi «vii ph—» awjmwm'uy
rochester, n. y., friday, march 10, 1848.
toting thanks fob military
services.
on friday, feb. 11th, an exciting
debate arose in the u. s. senate on the
i joint resolution from the house of rep
resentatives expressing the thanks of
congress to gen. scott and his troops,
for their distinguished gallantry in the
mexican war. we give some extracts
of his rem.ark3, as reported in the na
tional era. mr. hale said
i have no disposition to trespass on
t the attention of the senate, but i can-
i not suffer the question to betaken with-
j out expressing the grounds of my oppo
sition to the passage of this resolution.
in doing so, i have no object in view
except to manifest consistent opposition
to the war in all phases—in all its as
pects—and in whatever way it can be
presented. i feel constrained to record
i my vote against the passage of this re
solution, because i cannot, by any pos
sibility, by any sophistry, separate in
my mind a vote of thanks to these offi
cers for the agency which they have
had in the war, from an approval in the
war, in which they are engaged. i did
not promise at this time, to repeat tc
the senate my convictions as to the
character of this war, because i, have
alreodyauffiriently expressed those con
victions. i desire only to vindicate the
propriety of the course which i propos
ed to take upon this occasion. any ju
dicious efforts, here or elsewhere, to
bring this war to a close—to a speedy
and honorable close—will command my
earnest and most cordial thanks; but i
have no thanks to ofter those who have
been employed in the prosecution of a
war, which i believe to be thus unjust
from its commencement. nor can i
accede to another proposition which i
have heard maintained with a good
deal of energy here and elsewhere—
that an officer of the army or navy has
no discretion—that he is a mere machine
of the administration—that is to say,
go,” and he goetb, come,” and.he
comeih, without attaching to himself
any share of inoral responsibility for
the character of the transaction in which
he is engaged. i do not believe any
such doctrine. i do not believe that of
ficers of the army or navy are such
machines; or that, by receiving com
missions in either service, they divest
themselves of all responsibility for the
character of the transactions in which
they mhy be engaged in pursuance of
the orders which they receive. there
is one bright page in the history of the
english army, which i think might,
with great propriety, be commended to
the thoughtful consideration of every
gentleman who thus represents the offi
cers of the army as irresponsible ma
chines. it is found in the history of the
earl of effingham, a distinguished offi
cer of the army, and a member of the
house of peers. he was colonel of a
regiment in the british service, when
he received orders to join the army a
bout to embark for america, and fight
the rebels at charleston and camden
his conduct on that occasion was wor
thy of all commendation; and would to
god that we had some one, who, inher
iting a portion of his spirit, when the
order of this administration was issued,
directing the advance of the troops to
the rio grande, would have followed
so illustrious an example! the story is
briefly told in the annual register”
for the year 1776, and, with the indul
gence of the senate. i will read it:
the earl of effingham, whose mili
tary genius had led him when a youth
into the army and had since prompted
him to ripen theory into experience
wherever real service was to he found,
by acting as a volunteer in the war be
tween the russians and the turks, had,
since his return, as a peer in parlia
ment, uniformly opposed the whole sys
tem of measures pursued against the
americans; and finding, at length, that
the regiment in which he* served was
intended for the american service,
thought k inconsistent with bis charac
ter, and unbecoming of his dignity, to
enforce measures w ith his sword, which
he had so utterly condemned in his legis
lative capacity. he accordingly wrote
a letter of resignation to the secretary
of war, in which, having declared the
cheerfulness with which be would sac
rifice his life tad fertwne hi support of
the safety, hsusr, mi dignity of his
majesty's crown nod parson, he shssrv
od, that the same principles which had
tlmc«uofduty and affection to the king,
j dark n.. t. tb, ovriw«fli«h»;
brcmik a wwkkr-wtatiaf akbennr drawe* draw
o* rf potmas; beransv die me tny tojcmm that
uwrihii* mad ravage* a waiaa, ha* in the
hraad blaa bay rat pp waae pptty ielaad; far as m
■till na; a mu* ea the flay e f eraatioa, which jra
«w bhht wipe eat. sie ie a *-eih» iwl leareer.
faettieg the while rabee ef inaeceara; a rattle
eatiag «at *e heart of the royal eedwa of lefaaaoa;
a icac ia theawred veil, whmhy god left hie «a>'
pfc; *erefara c*aj«.ior ihjeeh. thee that** aut
eumra far (by guilt.”
let us take heed, my friends, that
this current of evil shall not sweep us
along, without the noblest of all resist
ances, the resistance of moral strength.
if there is not virtue in using every
nerve against this war, and against its
originating cause—human slavery—in
this professedly free and enlightened
country, then in vain have been all the
lessons of the past. in rui is our talk
of the age of light and projgresu, and
the good time coming.’* in vain is
our hope of a purer state of love, our
anticipation of the reign of christ’s
kingdom of peace and good will. in
rain are our dreams of a better age,
our vision of a free and happy country,
where knowledge and art, where sci
ence and religion, where poetry and
beauty shall abide aud bless. they
are all in vain, mere mists which the
burning sun shall cause to disappear;
and most foolish and miserable of all
men are they who thus hope, and pray,
and labor.
would not suffer him to be instrumental
iin depriving any pert of his people of
those liberties, which form the best .se
verity for their fidelity end obedience to
his government. he expressed the
deepest regret end greatest mortifica
tion at being obliged to quit a profes
sion which had been that of his ances
tors for many ages, to the study and
practice of which from childhood his
past life had been applied, and his future
intentionally dedicated; and that, as he
waived the advantage which the cus
tom of the service entitled him to, the
right of settling what he bad bought, be
entreated that he might be allowed to
retain his rank in the army, that when
ever the envy or ambition of foreign
powers should require it, he might be
enabled to serve his majesty and his
country in that way, j n which of all
others, he thought himself best calcula
ted to do it with effect.”
this was the course taken by that
distinguished officer of the british army,
when he received orders from the
crown to embark on a service which
did not commend itself to his moral sen
timents. if there could have been
found within the ranks of the american
army, an officer entertaining such exal
ted ideas of duty and dignity as that,
who did not merge the man in the offi
cer, and who could have told the ad
ministration that he respected his own
convictions of truth and duty, and could
not yield obedience to an arbitrary man
date, i would have thanked him and
thanked god that he had given us such
a man. but i can record no vote of
thanks to any of the officers of this ar
my, for having been engaged in a con
test which every feeling of my heart
and every dictate of my judgement con
demns. the resolution speaks of glory.
that glory i look upon as our shame!
we have won no glory in this war
which i desire to share, for it has been
acquired in a cause which i believe has
not been sustained by justice; and
there can be no glory without justice.
there con be glitter and there can be
glare, but no glory separate from truth,
righteousness, and justice; and believ
ing that the whole of this transaction,
from beginning to end, instead of add
ing anything to our national glory, has
detracted from it—that, instead of cloth
ing our national charcter with just re
nown, it has rendered our name a shame
and a reproach to the friends of free
principles, wherever the history of our
doings in mexico are known—l must,
as one humble individual, withhold,
now and forever, any vote of thanks 01
approbation to those who have been in*
strumental in carrvinw nn ikn wn>
great men.
the following tribute to the venerable
james fob ten, though published several
years since, may not be devoid of interest at
the present time:
i shall speak of great men/’ ac
cording to the common acceptation oi
the term. i had a letter of introduc
tion to some colored gentleiqcn in
this city, and as i have not hitherto in
any city found any that have excelled
them, i choose, in strict justice, to give
them a prominent place in the cata
logue. i am really serious, and mean
what i say, although many readers j
who seem to believe, more in skin de- j
pravity than in that of the heart, might j
conclude, from such an introduction,
that i mean to trifle. one of those to j
whom i was introduced was mr. james
forten
the personal appearance, the con
versation, and the manners, of this
gentleman, are of the very first order.
hi* stoture, i should think, is about
six feet, and he is most symmetrically
formed. as he approaches you, there
seems in his appearance an evident
consciousness that he wears a skin
which is everywhere spoken against,
yet it occasiens no embarrassment. to
the reverse of this, he seems also con-}
scious that he is a man, possessed of
certain inalienable rights, and exhibits
a corresponding dignity in bis manners.
he has no appearance of ostentation
or vanity, and yet he is polite in the
true sense of the word, and uncom
monly easy in his gestures and con
versation. so far as i am capable of
judging, he talks pure english, and
every word weighs. a more interest
ing gentleman, in elegance of person,
ease and agreeableness of manners,
together with fluency and pertinence
in conversation, 1 i hare scarcely ever
seen.
mr. forten informed me that he
could trace his ancestors back in this
coantry about one hundred and seventy
years; that he himself was born in phi
ladelphia that he was in the state
house yard, whsn the far-famed de
claration of independence was read;
and that he early engaged is the
defence of his country’s rights, in the
revolutionary conflict. he was taken
prisoner after some severe conflicts,’
in 1799, while serving in the royal
louis, under the father of the cele
brated decatur, and was seven months
in captivity, oa board of the noto
rious prison-ship “jersey;” during
which time three thousand five hundred
of ins fellow-prisoners fell vietiaw to
forty-five years ago, be cootmeaced
the baseness of rail mshmg in this
city, (philadelphia.) he served an
apprenticeship, and at the end of it
was not worth n dollar. now, repast
says, that be is posscseed of prapjmrly
dollars or move. he e mploys about
twenty-five haads, mostly colored per
sons, els east him tea thousand dollars
annually; aad it is said ho does more
hnsiaros in has line, than aay other
house the united states. i-think
he informed as that ha had atoaatiam
the nfia for ninety-five vwoscla engaged.
being once requested to rig a ship en
gaged in the slave slave trade,
indignantly refused; considering the
request an insult. there appears to
be the utmost order and regularity in
conducting his business, and among
his workmen; and the foreman, a col
ored gentleman, has been with him
twenty-five years. all his work is
done without the use of a drop of ar
dent spirits; and he informed me, that
be never drank a single glass in his
life. mr. forten told me he had been
visited by a number of members of the
legislature, who were much interested
in his history; and one or more ©i
them visited his family, and joined
their company at the tea-table. from
what i could learn, mr. fcrten is
abundant in liberal bequests to the
poor, and is generally a p*iron and
promoter of beuevolent objects; and
not only do the poor of his own color
receive, by his charity, an alleviation
of their wants and woes, but the white
man’s heart is often made glad by his
benevolence.
the family of mr. fcrten, i should
think, would be enough to interest the
black law gentry and skin depravity
people. they are most prepossessing,
and apparently intelligent, amiable,
and genteel. elis two eldest sons
were engaged in the sail loft, to whom
he introduced me; and more accom
plished young gentlemen i have hardly
ever had the pleasure of seeing. their
father showed me a map of the united
states, drawn by one of them, entirely
with his pen, which, i think, excelled
anything of the kind which i had ever
seen. it is with great difficulty it can
be distinguished from the most neatly
engraved map. other productions of
these young gentlemen were shown
me, equally creditable to their native
intellect and acquired accomplishments.
mr. forten died at his residence in
philadelphia, mar. 4th, 1542. among
the last words he uttered w as his love
for william lloyd garrison. his:
funeral, one of the largest ever seen in
philadelphia,was attended by thousands
of all classes and complexions, includ-
ing many merchants, shippers, and sea
captains, who had knowu and respected
him for years.
here is another to william cos ten, who
died at the bank of washington, may 31,
1842:
he had been porter of the bank
twenty-four years, and preserved a
high character for punctuality and in
tegrity. after his death, the bank
directors unanimously passed a reso
lution expressiv e of the highest respect:
for his memory, and presenting fifty
dollars to his family. the national’
intelligencer gave him an honorable
t obituary, from which the following is
copied:
possessing the unlimited confidence
of the president, directors, and officers
of the bank, millions of money were
allowed to pass through the hands of
the deceased; and in no one instance,!
as we arc authorized to say, was there
discovered the slightest defalcation.
the citizens of washington gener- 1
ally bear testimony to his excellent;
qualities. his colored skin covered a
benevolent heart. he raised respect-1
ablyr a large family of his own, and, in
the exercise of the purest benevolence, j
took into his family and supported four
orphan children. his funeral was
attended by a very large number of
persons, including citizens of the high- i
est respectability. there were over
seventy carriages, followed by a long i
procession of colored men on horse-: j
back; among whom, to his credit be it h
spoken, rode one white gentleman,'
francis s. key, esq., a sincere and'j
consistent colonizationist. john q. 11
adams, while discussing the suffrage
question in congress, remarked: “the
late w'iiiiam cost in, though he was j j
not white, was as much respected asj<
any man in the district; and the large i
concourse of citizens that attended his
remains to the grave, white as well as
black, was an evidence of the manner
in which he was estimated by the 1
citizens of washington. now, why: i
should such a man as that be excluded
from the elective franchise, when you j
admit the vilest individuals of the white: t
net to exercise it f” i,
glimpse* op slavery hoctii
£ii.i testimony.
this day fortnight we stood on ou:
wharf. it was a bright and beautiful
day. the air was balmy, and all na
ture seemed in sweetest harmony.—
hundreds were out enjoying the scene,
and the man of business, all engaged
he was, seemed disposed to forget its
call, and partake of its pleasures. vet
aft this moment—it was near in id-day—
a gang of negroes, manacled, sod
linked together by sn iron chain, s
white man in front, and another in the
renr, was driven along, attracting ali
eyes! a cold shudder ran through the
crowd. it was a sight which startled
and shocked all. flow suppose an in
telligent stranger visiting us had wit
nessed this sight—suppose him to have
known nothing of slavery except what
its friends aver—what would be have
thought what have said w hen he
reached has free home? bitter words
would leap to kis tongue. hot feelings
of indignation would burn in bis heart.
he could not forget this sight, nor
could ho ever after help speaking of
slavery as the darkest of human
wrongs. yet this display may be wit
nrased in all our commercial marts and
at every capital.
further suppose a ms* every way
well disposed towards ns, and ready to
do us full justice, in mil respects, should
hr the first tamo attend a safe of ne
groes. nooe of us like to do it. “1
never could,” said an intelligent slave
william c. sell, p*s liras*.
johs dick, purrs*.
whole no—xi.
holder to us the other day, stood by
an w tne l their sole; as if they wtrs
oxen. and such, we believe, is tho
gmeial feeling. well, the stronger
goes tu the auction. he sees aw« mao
on the block, '•-•env persons surround
her, wishing to buy, and he hears
questions os to her age, her hab
its, her soundness. not content
with this, he secs one rudely reeling
i her muscles, to be certain that she is
j and healthful! as a man, as a
i citizen, unaccustomed to such
never realizing that such things could
be, must he not bo shocked? will not
the blood rush freni his heart, and tin*
g!e in his veins, as if all were on fire
\ct there is no slave state, no part of
any slave state, w hich is not forced to
w itness scenes as sad as this!
nay, as to that, a darker f**™ iwrlt
mains to be unfolded. in that auction
room arc many slaves. the eld and
young are there. fathers ar.d moth
ers, husbands and wives, brothers and
sisters, set side by side, fearing every
thing, yet knowing not what they fear.
are these family ties heeded? as
the father ascends the block, dors his
wife accompany him, do their children
gather found them—and do we hear
the slaveseller say, this is one fam
ily—they cannot be separated:” ala*
it is not so! the father stands alone.
the wail of his wife may be hcaid
the agonizing sobs of the children may
ring in our eais, it is of no avail; the
sale goes cn, the holiest tics are ludelv
snap! asunder, and they whom god
had ordained should love each other,
and live together, forcibly and forever
separated? tell us, friend, tell us,
humane slaveholder, if any stranger
could witness a sight like this, or read,
or hear of it, and not denounce the in
stitution as accursed? can we expect,
do we ask, that men afar off should deal
gently with it, write or speak kindly of
it, when it .concentrates within itself
terrors which shocked the heathen, and
which, if narrated to us of any other
people, would make our very blood boil
with indignation?
and now imagine that the stranger
seeing these things should turn to our
statute hooks, and look closely at our
jlave laws." here the freeman may be
sold into slavery forever, if lie be una
ble to pay a trilling fine. there, it is a
criminal offence to teach the slave to
read the w ord of (led—that word w hich
we are commanded to study and know
—that word which the saviour died to
teach. in one state, marriages arc not
allowed; the law making the offspring
ot any union among slaves illegitimate.
in none are they legalized. every
where is public opinion in advance of
our slave code. everywhere are slave
owncis really more humane and chris
tian than the law. that, in. spirit, ia
vindictive, cruel, irreligious; no bar
barian code is so bad. yet it is that,
and that alone, by which the great ma
jority of the people of the world judge
us, by which they judge the institution
of slavery. is it strange that they
should judge harshly they were nioie
or less than men if they did otherwise.
—louitrilu examiner.
a singular fact rot a fact.—
in the washington correspondence
of the christian (baptist) w atchman,
we find the fallowing;
it is a singular fact, that thirty four
yenn since, the men, through whose
igencythe disturbing question of slavery
*as been set in motion, lived within a
ew doors of each other, in the quiet
own of ncwburyport. the one, a
dim apprentice boy, engaged in setting
ip types in a printing office, and the
>ther a merchant, selling ribbons and
lilks cn the comer of the adjoining
dock. the apprentice was wm.
do)d garrison, and the merchant
francis todd. garrison moved to
baltimore, and edited a puper called
the genius of universal emancipa
ion,’ in which appeared a paragraph
4uting that a vessel owned by francis
todd, was engaged in the slave trade.
—for this libel, garrison was fined
md imprisoned. this, then, was the 1
>ise of that fierce spirit of contention
vhicb has roused the cry of oppression
m.d wrong, from one end of the country
o the other, and made slavery the
•exed question, of the day.”
the correspondent of the watchman
is mistaken in two points. the period
he refers to ia less than thirty years, as
l d‘d not go fo irani the “art and
mystery” of pi biting until the latter
portion of the year i*lb. the fin*
and imprisonment, resulting from the
libel suit alluded had nothing to do
with my anti>«!averv career, except as
an incident. i had previously conse
crated my self to the'eauve of the slave,
even before i went to baltimore; so
that the singular fact of this letter
writer tarns out to be a purely ima
ginary one. towards francis todd f
cherished n* ill-will whatever; but on
learning that a ship belonging to him
was about railing from baltimore with
a cargo of slaves, i denounced the act
is scandalotm and cruel, and held up
(hat nefarious traffic as equally guilty
with the foreign. for this honest out
hurst of moral indignation, i was hea
vily fined by a baltimore court, and
incarcerated in the jail of that city
forty-nine days.— liberator.
the ufiuenui is ttpaia.— according
to a statement by a physician of madrid,
in one of the journals of that capital,
about 00,000 persons m that city were,
a week ago, suffering from the grippe.
at seville a third of the population and
■t murcia great numbers, were suffer
ing severely from the same malady x
iwrtdtvcc ia a good substitute fhr
taiunt. brian glitters equally wall wsk
[old.
from parker’s letters on slavery.
effects of slavery on education
let us now look at fbc effects of
slavery on the intellectual, moral and
religious development of the people.
the effect on tiro intellectual, moral
ani rcligiom condition of the slave, ii
easily understood. me is onlv contin
ued in slavery bv restraining him from
•he civilization of mankind in this age.
mia mind, conscience, soul—ail ins no
bler powers—rnunt be kept in a stale of
inferior development, otherwise he will
not be a slave in the nineteenth ccntu
rv, and in the united states. incom
p iris >n with the intellectual culture of
their masters, the slaves are a mass of
barbarians, still more emphatically
when compared with the free institu
tions of the n nth; they are savages.
this is not a mere matter of inference,
th? fa't i« substantiated by the notorious
testimony of slaveholders themselves.
in lcfcm, the synod of south carolina
and georgia, reported that the slaves
may justly be considered the heathen
of this country, and will bear compari
son with the heathen of any part of the
world.” they are destitute of the
privileges of the gospel, and ever will
he, under the present state of things.”
in all the slave states, says the synod,
there arc not twelve men exclusively
devoted to the religious instruction ot
the negroes.” of the regular minis
ters, but a very small portion pay any
attention to them.” “we know of but
five churches in the slavcholding states
built exclusively for their u.sc,” and
there is no sufficient room for them
ri llm white chnrclics for their accom
modation.” “they are unable to
sead, as custom, or law, and generally
both, prohibit their instruction. they
have no bible —no family altars and
when in affliction, sickness or death,
they have no minister to address to
them the consolations of the gospel,
nor to bury them with solemn and ap
propriate services.” they may some
times be petted and caressed as chil
dren and toys, they are never treated as
men.
heathenism,” says another south
ern authority, is as real in the slave
states us in the south sea islands.”—
“chastity is no virtue among them
(the slaves;) its violation neither in
jures the female character in their own
estimation nor that of their mistress.”
when there b no marriage recognized
by the state or church as legal and
permanent between slaves; where the
lemalc slave is wholly in her master’s
power —how can it be otherwise? said
the roman proverb, nothing is un
lawful for the master to his slave.”—
when men arc counted as things, in
strument.! of husbandry, separable
limbj of the master, and retained in
subjugation by external force and the
prohibition of all manly culture, the
effect of slavery on its victim is so
obvious that no more need be said
thereof.
the eltect of slavery on the intel
lectual. moral and religious condition
of the free population of the south, is
not so obvious perhaps at first sight.—
but a comparison with the free sates
will render that also plain.
all attempts at the improvement of
the humbler and more exposed portions
of society, the perishing and dangerous
classes thereof, originate in the free
states. it is there that men originate
societies for tire reform of prisons, the
prevention of crime, pauperism, in
temperance, licentiousness and igno
rance. there spring up education so
cieties, bible societies, peace socie
ties, societies for teaching christianity
in foreign and barbarous land*. there
too are the learned and philosophical
societies, for the study of science, let
ters and art. whence come the men
of superior education who occupy the
pulpits, exercise the professions of law
and medicine, or fiil the chairs of the
professors in the colleges of the un
ion? almost all from the north, from
the free states. there is preaching
everywhere. but search the .whole
southern states for the last seven-and
forty years, and it were hard to show
a single preacher of any eminence
in any pulpit of a slave-hold
ing state; a single clergyman re
markable lbr ability in his calling, for
great ideas, for eloquence, elsewhere
so cheap —or even for learning! even
expositions and commentaries on the
bible, the most common clerical pro
ductions, are the work of the north
alone.
whence come the distinguished au
thors of america? the poets—bryant,
longfellow, whittier; historians
sparks, prescctt, bancroft; jurists—
parsons, wheaton, story, kent?—
whence irving, dimming, emerson?
—wncnce all the scientific men, the
men of thought, who represent the na
tion’s loftier consciousness? all from
the free slates; north of mason and
dixon’s line!
few works of any literary or scien
tific value ha\c been written in this
country in any of the slave states; few
ever get repriuted there. compare the
works which lsue from the press ol
new orleans, savannah, charleston,
norfolk, baltimore, with such as come
from philadelphia, new york und
bostoiwcvcn from lowell and cincin
nati pare but the booksellers
stock in those several cities, and the
difference between the cultivation of the
more educated classes of the south
and north is apparent at a glance.
but leaving general considerations o 1
the* sort, let us look at facts, in 1<»71,
sir william be lively, governor of vir
ginia, said, l thank g*»d that there
arc no free schools m»r printing presses,
fin virginia.) umi i hope we shall not
have them these huudred yers.” in
1810, in the fifteen slave slates and
territyries, there were at the various
primary schools 201,085 scholars; at
the vurious primary schools of the free
states 1 ,<>25,028. the state of ohic
atone had *2lb,t»o.'t scholars ot her pn«
marv schools, 17,521 more than all the
fifteen slave states. south carolina
had 12,250 such scholars, and rhod«
island 17,315. new york abnc ha?
502,317.
in the higher schools, there were ir
the sotith 3c,o;i> “scholars at the
public charge,” as they arc called »r
the census; in the north, 432,338 simi
lar' sch jars. virginia, the largest ol
the slave states, had i), 731 such scho
lars; rhode mind, the smallest ofth*
free stale*, 10,749. massachusetts
alone bad 156.361, me than fow
times as many as all the alive stales.
in the slave states, it academies and
grammar schools, there were 62,906
scholars; in (he free stains, 97,174.
but the dtobrcnce is bombers here
does toot represent the difference af
fact, for most of the academies and
grammar schools of the south are in
terior to the schools at public charge m
of the n >rth far inferior to the
better portion of the northern dis
trict schools.
[to be costixced.
we commend the fbitowfogeorxespoadssce
t j the attention of those who would oms pa-,
i tronizc the north star
clintox, midi., feb. 4, 18*8.
h.cseclet, eso. :—please send me the
new york daily tribune, and 1 wih psy you
at the |end of the year. by so doing, jo.,
will promote the whig cause in this section of
country, and oblige yoors, &c.,
henry w. stevens,
i
aertr.
new yoai, feb. 15, 1848.
11. w. srcvrcsjesq. —dear sir:—yours,
l of the 4th has just reached me, and your re-i
has been duly considered. i beg leare
to ny in answer that i cannot do as you wish'
un«l?r exurtmg circumstances, for the tb!low-j
ing reasons ist, i can’t remember that i
ever had the honor of knowing you; sdly, j
the fact that you did not pay the postage on
your letter is not calculated to impress me fa
vorably aa regards your pecuniary reliability
and 3dly, i published newspapers seven years
on credit, with lots of subscribers, and came
near starring to death thereby. for the last
i seven years i hare gone on the opposite tack, i
sending my paper very' rarely to any who had
i not p*id for it in advance and i think it will;
gladden your philanthropic heart to know that i
i the change has worked admirably for my con-!
stitution. i have since had not only a good
•array of subscribers, but enough to eat, a:
pood snit of clothes, and very often some
change in the vest pocket. wishing you a
-hare of the same blessings, i remain,
yours truly,
horace greeley,
j p. s. l should like well to do anything
fairly within my power to ‘promote the whig
i cause* in michigan, where there really seems
to be need of some efforts in that direction.—
i if, therefore, a dozen whigs of your town
will write me that sending the tribune to
any named address will have the effect you
intimate, i will gire the paper gladly but as
to sending it on credit to a stranger, i would
j most respectfully ask to be excused. dis
i liking to tax any one with postage unless he
has requested it,*l send you this printed in the
tribune, and postpaid. adieu
h. g.
the north star.
rochester, march 10 1048.
i colored churches.—pfo. 111.
one of the greatest evils resulting from
separate religious organizations for* the ex
clusive use of colored persons, is the coun
tenance and support which they give to ex
clusive colored schools. the very existence
of the former is an argument in favor of the
latter. if there be any good reason for a
j colored church, the same will hold good in
regard to a colored school, and indeed to
i every other institution founded on complexion.
negro pews in the church negro boxes in
the theatre negro cars on the railroad uc
gro berths in the steamboat; negro churches
and negro schools in the community, are all
ihe jjetnicious fruit of a wicked, unnatural,
and blasphemous prejudice against our god
given complexion and as such stand dire!,
j in the way of our progress and equality.
the axe must be laid at the root of the tree.
this whole system of things is false, foul,
and infernal, and should receive our most
earnest and unceasing reprobation. the
evils of separate colored schools are obvious
to the common sense of all. their very
tendency is to produce feelings of superiority
in the minds of white children, and a sense
of inferiority in those of colored children;
thus producing pride on the one hand, and
servility on the other, and making those who
would be the best of friends the worst of
enemies. as we have frequently urged on
the platform and elsewhere, prejudice is not
the creature of birth but of education. when
a toy in the streets of baltimore, we were
never objected to by our white playfellows on
account of our color. when the hat was
tossed up for a choice of partners in the play,
we were selected as readily ms any other boy,
and were esteemed as highly as any. no
one ever objected to our complexion. we
i could run as fast, jump as far, throw the ball
as direct and true, and catch it with as much
j dexterity and skill as the white boys; and
were esteemed for what we could do. and
such, in our judgment, would be the case
here at the north, but for the many influences
tending to a separation of white from colored
children. wc shall, however, have more to
say on this subject at mother tune for it is
one which ought to receive speedy and um»
i rough attention, not only in this community,
but throughout the union.
another reason against colored churcbet
originates in the character and qualification!
of the moil aluuwt universally and necessarily
employed as their teachers and pastors. will
few exceptions, colored ministers have no'
th? mental qualification to instruct and im
prove their congregations; and instead ol
advancing, they retard the intellectual pro
gress of the people. some of the must popu
lar colored preachers in this country are met
unable to write their own names; and mam
of them are unable to read without spelling
half their words. colored churches form i
field for this class of would-be ministers
and their existence is one great reason of the
ignorance and mental inactivity, and general
want of enterprise among us as a class. wc
have heard them denounce w hat they cailcc
iuiut-learning,” as an evil to religion, say
ing, that “the letter killeth, but the apirii
gtvcili life; and that all we should care abou’
is to get to heaven when we die.” of conn*
the eft-ct of such teachers and teaching is u
establish the conviction, that ignorance h
bliss, and it is folly to he wise.” a virtu** ii
made of ignorance, and sound is preferred n
sense. tn point of elevation and improve
me lit, w icked as are the white churches, am
cuirupt ua are their white ministers, eolotci
persons would have gained much more bj
remaining in theta, than they have dune fo
coming out from them; and ihry might <*r«
this, in (be not them states, at least, ha it bah#
tamed equal rights in every department of us
•chuseh, bad they remained in them andean
tended for their rights. the example art by
mm ia new eogm,
rasfccl te the unjust tad ediooo dimiactitei
formerly praetieed there in the use ef railroad
evs, is worthy of imitation ia the ehuirbre.
we htn frequently foac into cam intended
oaly for white patemgrre, aad ado«h ouredt
te be brrtsa end dragged oat by lb* artaa*
and conductors, as a boh of distinctly
■afitiaf tbe equal rights of colored pereon*
in the oac ef those ears. aad whet baobeee
the result of sack coodoct an ear put! why
this—tbe whole system of compelling adored
persons to ride ia separate cars frees others
has been totally abolished. the nubuod
companies wm*» t of their proecrip-
uoti, and abandoned it. colored ssea are bow
treated with the utmost kindness aad equality
on the saase roods where fire yean ago, they
were insulted and degraded. we should like
to aee the same course pursued toward white
churches. colored members shoold go ia
and take seats, without regard to their com
plexion, and allow themselves to he dragged
out by the ministers, elders, and deacons.
such a course would very soon settle the
question, and in the right way. it would
compel the church to develop her character
in such a manner at either to secure the rights
of her colored members, or to secure her own
destruction. we shall practice on this prin
ciple, and in every instance give whits reli
gious worshippers the trouble of removing us
from among them, or the pain of enduring
our dark appearance.
another evil of colored churches ia their
expensirencss. colored people are scattered
over the country in small numbers, and are
j generally poor; and to be compelled to
build churches lor themselves, and hire
i their own minister, is by no means a trifling
hardship. the minister and his family must
be supported, though the members have
scarcely the means of living, to say nothing
of the means of educating and improving the
minds of their children. we have knows of
churches composed of a dozen good colored
women and as many men; the former gain
ing their living over the wash-tub, and the
latter obtaining theirs by daily toil; at the
same time supporting a minister and hb
family at an expense of from two to three
hundred dollars a year.
ohio black laws.
in no state of this union are there to be
found laws more cruel, unjust and atrocious,
than those on the statute book of ohio. an
assembly of devils could not have enacted
laws more infernal, and better fitted to pro
mote crime, than what arc called the black
laws'’ of that state. during our anti-sla
very tour through ohio, last summer, in
company with william lloyd garrison, we
frequently called attention to these wicked
and disgraceful laws, and exhorted the people
to demand their repeal. they have done so;
(for the people in northern ohio are ashamed
ofthose laws;) and though they have suc
ceeded in getting an excellent report in favor
of repeal, through the trickery of pandering
politicians, the bill to repeal them was defeat
ed, by a vote of 43 to 23.
the discussion in the legislature on this
subject, affords some excellent illustrations oi
political morality, and sense of accountability.
take the following for example
mr. culbertson declared ills utter defla
tion of the disgraceful acts w hich are well
known and well named as the black laws.”
but in the county wliich he represents on this
floor, (muskingum,) the question had not
.rn min assod before the people—but he felt
it to be his duty, in direct opposition to his
own opinion, to vote as he knew the majority
of his constituents desired upon the subject,
lie should now vote against the repeal; but
should he be sent bade with the opinions
which he took the present occasion to make
known to the worw, his vote should be given
for freeing our statute books from the dis
grace which such enactments brought upon
thun.”
is ho not a moral man? are you not
forcibly struck with his manly port and inde
pendent bearing? his body in columbus,
and his conscience in muskingum! he
brands the law s as disgraceful, and generously
disgraces himself by refusing to repeal them,
lie marks them with his utter detestation, and
renders himself detestable by sustaining
them. is he not a perfect gem of his kind
he is indeed the people's most obedient
servant, and worthy to be called an american
legislator!
here arc o few extracts from the mack
laws:
from the act of jan. 5, 1804,
see. 1. that from and after the ist day
of june next, no black or mulatto shall be
permitted to settle or reside in this state, un
j less he or she shall first produce a (air certifi
j cate, from some court within the united
i states, of his or her actual freedom; which
j certificate shall be attested by the clerk of said
court, and the seal thereof annexed thereto by
j said clerk.
sec. 3. that no person nr persons, reai-
i dents of this state, shall be permitted to hire,
or in any way employ any black or mulatto
j person, unless such black or mulatto person
j shall have one of the certificates as aforesaid,
under pain of forfeiting and paving any sura
not less thrn ten, nor more than fifty dollars,
j at the discretion of the court, for every such
offence and one-half thereof to the use oi
1 the informer, and the other half for the use
of the state.”
from the act of j*n. 25,1807.
sec. 1. thai no negro or mulatto person
shall be permitted to emigrate into and settle
within this state, unless such negro or mu
latto person shall, within twenty days there
after, enter into bond with two or more free
hold sureties in the penal sum of five hundred
dollars, conditioned for the good be
havior of such negro or mulatto, and more
over to pay for the support of such person in
ase he, she or they should be found within
uiy township in thin stale unable to support
themselvrs.
see. 3. that if any person, being a rcoi
lent of the state, shall employ, harbor or
'unreal anv such negro or mulatto person
lforesaid, contrary to the provisions of the
first section of this net, any person so offend
ing shall forfeit and pay for each offence anv
sum not exceeding oqe hundred dollars, cut
half to tbs iofonaor, and the othor half for
the use of the poor of the township in whieh
fuch person may reside; and
moreover be liable for the mainteaanee sad
support of such negro or mulatto, provided he,
she or they shall beoome unable to nippon
ihrmocltrrs.
sos. 4. that eo mack .if wubtti. p*r»>r
or forms shall bsraaiier he peraw|t«d to he
sworn or give sndimnr m any court of mooed
or elsewhere in this state, in any cause do
-ending, or matter of controversy,whore either
d «he same is a white person, or is
i my lrosecutt t* which shall he instituted
|is behalf of this stale against nay white
l.wreai."
school fired to lbs e*«aliaa<rf ron)pm*
of ths slate, than §mmm osiasai y-w
from all tec ordinary mm df iteiteß.
the foregoing bn«titmww«m(d
a» the kidding of kremeky jin k link
the fiat above wee intended te pre
and other slaw states from entering the river
and seeking as asylum is the state of ohio.
it wee intended ae a watt te piereel eeeape
from the msody field of slavery—a am ef
hatchet, to cat off the sagers ef the fugitive
as he climbs to dear himself of the white
tanged american bloodhounds. the law docs
not me fine its efibrts to enslave merely to the
black, hot provides far enslavement of a
growing daae ef aamrieso slaves, catted
rmtlauoes. black sr mulatto.” this
hater chssaie generally the sane end dangb
ters ef white men, hy colored mothers. we
say generally, becanee them have barn n few
instances ef a contrary character. the law
looks to keeping sock in their chains. their
anglo-saxon blood avails them nothing in the
free state of ohio. it is no matter that their
masters are their fathers; they eaaoot be al
lowed to reside in the state without a certifi
cate of their freedom. the feet that they are
men is nothing. straight lair, preoriaeat
features, light enenplexious, are to them ef no
avail. the ample feet that they are of
nixed blood, is sufficient to prevent them from
residing ia this free state.
them liberty-loving legislators having com
pleted the ramparts from which to repulse the
whip scarred fugitive, go on to make pro
vision for h» starvation, shook! he ever suc
ceed in getting into the state. could any
thing be more inhuman, more fiendish god
says, thou shall not deliver onto hie mas
ter the servant who has escaped onto thee
he shall dwell with thee within thy gates, in
itbe piece that bketh him best; thorn shall not
oppress him” coold there be s more open
and complete riohiion of god's law, than is
found in the black laws of ohio we have
no language to express our sense ef the
mean, wicked, and worse than savage char
acter of the men who, by refusing to repeal,
have re-enacted these disgraceful and bar
barous laws. in view of such enactments,
well might the illustrious o'connell brand us
before all the world as a nation of liars and
hypocrites. ohio is called s free state! if
she be such, what ia a slave state t
i’he legitimate operation of the law re
specting testimony, is to tempt white persons
to rob, cheat and plunder those of color. and
not a few have yielded to the temptation.—
under this law, a white man may commit any
outrage on his black neighbor with the most
complete impunity. in the debate on the
bill to repeal these wicked, unjust, mischiev
ous laws:
a mr. nigh said he should vote against
the repeal of the black laws, because he was,
individually, opposed to their repeal. he
thought they were right, and would never
have been placed upon our statute books had
there not been a reason for it; and he would
j not be instrumental in removing.”
the moral sense of a thug could not be
i more dark, lifeless and foul, than ia that of
i mr. nigh. he thinks the black laws
1 right,” and is opposed to their repeal on that
ground. to such a man, argument ia un
j necessary. we think a colored skin, for a
short time, might be of service to his mor
al vision. the man who can pronounce
such laws right, would have no moral hesi
tancy in committing murder. and yet a ma
jority of the assembled wisdom of ohio, have,
by refusing to repeal those law's, virtually said
to the world, we believe those laws to be
right.” when slavery gets mastery, the
whole moral constitution becomes inverted,
and men become the incarnation of devils.
we cannot dismiss this subject without ex
pressing our sincere thanks to mr. blake for
his able argument in favor of the repeal of
those laws, as well as his efibrts in behalf of
a law against the use of state jails and
state officers in arresting and detaining fugi
tive slaves. we must also thank mr. a. h.
lewis and mr. b. randeu, for their able re
port in favor of the repeal of the black laws.
we shall give our readers extracts from it in
our next number. let our friends in ohio
give their rulers no peace till those abomina
ble black laws are entirely wiped from the
statute book of the state.
john quincy adams,
the recent decease of this venerable
statesman, scholar and patriot, has called
forth one general voice of mourning through
out our widely-extended country. the press
teems with brilliant eulogies of his character,
and legislative halls reverberate with eloquent
expressions of honor for his memory. each
incident of his long and eventful life, is
seized upon with avidity, and every effort is
made to magnify and extend his feme. this
feeling of respect and veneration, is not felt
entirely by white persons, but is shared, to a
considerable degree, by the oppressed and de
spised colored people. they remember, with,
characteristic gratitude, the heroic conduct
of the deceased, in defending the sacred right
of petition; his mighty exposures of the
slave power, and its aggressions on the
rights of the north; the glorious victory
achieved over the slave oligarchy in congress,
with the mfemona mobocrat, thomas mar
shall, at its head; his unwearied exertions
against the annexation of texas; and they
can never forget his grand effort in behalf of
the amistad captives. thees feels in the
history of this great nun, -**u loved
and venerated by the oppressed while living,
and lead them to eherisk and boner his
memory, now that be is dead.
we give in another column of this week’s
paper, the proceedings of a meeting iff our
colored friends and fedow-eitaeaa, at buffalo,
in honor of the fn«*ric.ue imparted, as evincing
t!*- mayings of the oppressed in this country
with inspect to his worth.
b 7 wo have desired to pish no quarrel
wk the barn’s horn. we thought his
athrie an fee divisions among abolitionists
onjnrt; and being called upon by him to give
'jrr'en of the subject, we have said an.
e 7 a mistake in the litter «f m. r. d.,
nrefill,!■ n i iu 1 t
pviutßlnll ib our no wmb 9 simbb* n b
mad that, the duke de mont pern er was
married as isabella, queen of hpnm. bought
to hare keen, water te the queen of spain.
low c. cauwot*_
wtalwa vwy mlrih pi*
«m fofc faun fcwml *n\w ni
an through the pool
office. he-**- fell length, hooding
is sight «f u«r alavehalding and atoe-ftadmg
#n>pif i; kk left am a-bow by h»aii t hi
lus light ajrtwidrd ipwvi, with kh fore
inger pointing toward a yriafoffm,
the na, to which he iddremaa himself as
follow*;
m bm ef intellectnal light mi ti liberty,
stand ye wiß in masterly inactivity, font the
aatioa ef sooth carolina any contiooe to
hold negroes and phot cotton till the day of
joifonnnt rt
the title of the print is, 44 jiwfioi eore
mandiof the eon to eland still,” and in mu
by h. r. robmeoo, 143, nassau street,
new york, at $1 per dm.; $9 per 109.
sabbath desecration. —on ha sunday
evening, the waehiagtoaiaae held thaix anal
weekly anetiag in thw city. sons ufcwnce
eras made by the different apeekera to the
fortheeomg election ef city officers; dia
wnaieg the qaeation which ef the candidates
was heat fitted, by hit moral character, to fill
the high office of mayor. for this desecra
tion of the holy sabbath,” as it is called,
the 44 unco gude folks of rochester have
not foiled to consign these washingtonians
to perdition and eternal fire and brimstone.
have they nevex.learned, from the multitude
of eennons to which they have hateoed, that
even under the rigid formalism of the mosaic
law, h was 44 lawful to do well oo the sab
bath day”! it is well that there is mercy
in heaven for poor sinners would find very
little mercy, if their eternal destiny were at
the disposal of the few who arrogate to them
selves peculiarly the title of 44 children of
god,” opon earth.— j. d.
exclusive assemblies. —major noah, in
his sunday times and messenger, says, that
the only really exclusive assemblies in new
york, are out aristocratic churches. 44 when
we pass by them on sunday, and aee the
livened servants waiting outside, while their
masters and mistresses are worshipping with
in, wo think that possibly the thing may be
reversed in the next world, when the masters
will have to stand outside.”
valce or a vote. —of the twenty mil
linns of inhabitants in the united states,
there are about 3,500,000 legal votero.
were these voters required to square up the
expenses of the administration as they occur,
they would pay on an average of $4o
each for the national expenses of a single
year.
how to support tue was. —two pro
positions are before congress, both of which
propose a direct tax of five millions of dollars
to be laid for support of the war. both pro
positions came from democratic members—
wihnot of pennsylvania, and mckay, of
north carolina.
slavers captured. —an arrival at balti
more brings later accounts from liberia. two
brigs, under brazilian colors, had recently
been captured by the english cruisers, one
having 800, and the other 750 slaves on
board. neither of these vessels was over
150 tons burden.
notices of books.
bixtkekth akxcal rzpokt of the board of
managen of the massachusetts anti-slavery so
ciety.
this valuable anti-slavery document, has
reached us. we had looked for it with some
impatience. always able, eloquent, interest*
ing and instructive—and this year, it is un
usually so. the events narrated and the
topics discussed, embrace, we think, nearly
all that have claimed our attention during the
past year. in no direction do we look for so
faithful a record of anh-slavery events, as to
the annual reports of the massachusetts
anti-slavery society. wendell phillips,
said in a speech recently made at faneufl hall,
are hold ourselves s grand inquest for free
dom inspectors general may i say, of anti
slavery for old massachusetts,'* and he might
have added, for the whole country. no point
of interest is left untouched, the whole mass
of disjointed events and incidents are skillfully
arranged and presented to the reader with the
most admirable perspicuity. we shall treat
our readers with extracts from its pages, in
the columns of subsequent num
bers.
fibst aureal rxroar of the general agent
of the board of national popular education, with
the constitution of the board.
this is an interesting pamphlet, draws up
with the force and clearness for which mr.
slade the general agent is distinguished. the
object of the board of national education, is
set forth to be, to promote national popular
education, and to supply well qualified teach
ers, to places destitute of them. the object is
a coble one, hd no effort should be regsided
too dear, to accomplish it. thu friends of
this movement will, however, pardon us, if
we venture to enquire if destitute colored per
sons are to be regarded as within the range, of
their benevolent opperateons. we have ob
served with regret sod profound sorrow, that
while american christians have been prolific
of benevolent plans to elevate and improve the
condition of persona of their own complexion,
they hare usually excluded, as utterly un
worthy of their regard and attention, the for
sore destitute sad needy colored people of the
tend. we cherish the aopremest contempt
for anything under the aaae of humanity or
roßginn, thstessnot embrace the children of
a gptnmou god and creator of every eomplex
ioe. the general agent will confer a fever,
by informing ns of the position of the board
on this subject.
western new fou anti
•latest society.
the executive coeamittee will meet ee
tuesday evening next, march 14th, at the
aatt-stevexy office, *5. bufejo street,
fl tlnmllt is roqueted at 7 n’doek pre-
w. c. nell,bee.see.
to correspondents.
j. ml sduto.
h. w., prey id—or.—ranaired
bir. fia%ps
the notices hr masttega hjr juntas wafosr
and jsiui i. jaeahe, ware muted me its for foie
a—hart hot w* appear—ulweeh.
•limcatihs,
con join thb aieunonm.
a has of a ftod utmluay m|; for be
it knows to the keen of feed soagu, thot
eone ef the best ever suagv w® those to be
heard ie the happy hmaas of abolitionists, end
our great asti-sit my gatherings—aye, and
some of the beet, the most vouching, earnest,
strong, yet beautiful poems in this land, arc
those written by men and women, who lore to
nee their high poetic gift to waken the nation's
boost to the wail of the dare. we aay this
jin the aery present!, if need be, ef the right
rererened rufus griswold, d. d., although
in hiwscfections of american poetry, he has
not given n tingk fine of anti-slavery verse.
h*s he not taste, don't he know what good
poetry ie? or did he fear that the book would•
not suit the market so well, if the free hearted'
mid the truodteaited spoke through it but
to the cull, 44 eons and join the abolitionists/*
would it could ring through all the land, reach
tag ep the beautiful valley of the genesee,
down along the winding mohawk, the broad
hudson, mingling' with the sound of every
brawling brook, the low manner ef every'
sweetly flowing streamlet, that it might be*
heard amid the forests, through the sequester
ed vales, in the hamlet homes, the busy towns,
the fields, the work shops. that men might
listen earnestly to it, that women might every
where lend a pitying ear, that children might
pause amid the glad free sports of infancy, to
hear a voice that tells of ebimhood sold on
the a action mock of merry laughs and hap
py sports thrown into market and thus turned
to despair and sorrow, come before their time
to cloud life’s early day with darkened sha
dows.
if people would but obey the impulse of
thcii better selves, they would be with us.—
why, in our meetings, after listening to the
earnest eloquence of douglass, or the silvery
trumpet call of rcraond, men's hearts are
right fin- the time being, and if they would go
home and carry out their beautiful convictions
in practice, they would turn to the wall the
pictures of ah the 44 embodiments,” the ‘‘god
likes** and other idols, they are wont to wor
ship; would sec straight through the bellow
emptiness of party and church, and stand side
by side with the foremost in freedom’s ranks.
we loveto see people consistent. nobody in
this country is so except the abolitionist, for
he alone makes profession and practice square:
nobody else is free, for he alone is not to be
bought, frightened, or deceived by slavery's
“natural allies” and “beloved brethren in the
faith.”
however, we must repeat the call. slavery
utters its rallying call from pulpit, pews, and
mass meetings, the people listen as if it were
the voice of some, good angsl though it is only
the harsh scream ef an evil spirit.
by and by they will hear with an understand
ing ear, then our call will be sweet music
urging them to the conflict, as the rich tones
of the fluto moved the strong-handed and
stronger-hearted spartans of olden time to
battle and to victory. a new voice, too, will
be heard echoing through the land, reverbera
ting along the banks of the 44 father of wa
ters,” wafted on the north-wind over the
rice-swamps, the cotton-fields, the sugar plan
tations of the south—sending joy to the slave,
fear and trembling to the master, sounding
through the lordly hall of the planter like the
solemn toll of a funeral knell—that voice will
be 44 no union with alavcholdera, no compro
mise with slavery.” g. 13. s.
american slaveryits ef
fects upon toe non-slate
holding population op the
south.
turn to laboring freemen south of the
potomac, and if you care nothing about
slaves, care for your own color.” j. g.
palfrey
it has been demonstrated, that men re
duced to a condition of slavery, are in the
lowest depths of degradation; indeed, almost
beneath the pale of humanity. were goods
and chattels personal to be used, adjudged,
and held, to all intents, constructions, and
purposes whatsoever, it is evident that labor
performed by such persons lias the same de
gradation attached to it.
the principal part of labor, and the rude,
as indeed some of the fine, mechanic arts at
the south, are performed by slaves. this is
prejudicial to the interest of the poor free
man for while the planter, the contractor,
and the master mechanic can command the
labor of slaves, giving in return but a bare
subsistence, the sterm-r necessities of life,
they will not employ freemen, giving them in
return a sufficiency to maintain themselves
and families with respectability and educate
their children; and even if they were willing
to employ them, 44 freemen will never con
tent to be the y oka-fellows of tasked and plun
dered slaves.'*
such being the ease, it is evident that the
effect of slavery is not beneficial to the poor
freemen, who comprise by far the greater
part of the population of the south; they
look upon labor with contempt, and will do
anything to drag out a precarious existence,
rather than labor; and those that woik, are
the slaves of noeentety, mad are looked upon
as the equals of goods and chattels. so
strong is this contempt for labor in the bosom
of the peer white mss at the sooth, that the
writer can tell (from actual observation) of a
community living is and about the district of
columbia, south side of the potomac, known
as the 44 oooies,” who live by hunting
noons, sad catching an isfenor fish called the
red mullet, ard by plunder and clandestine
butene— itinnnnions with abv——more ig
norant than teaves, from not bring in contact
with intelligent people and hearing them con
verse, as many of the staves do—looked upon
ahks with eontempt by master and slave.
the sond-hillere of north carolina have
become a part of the history of the country.j
but thia dam of persons at the sooth have
pohiinl power; and ft may be ashed, if sla
very is so prejudicial to them, why do they
not exetare k for the removal of the system
is answer to this, we would urge the follow
ing propr niion: if nis man's heat interest
always ts do that which is right, if duty ia at
all times sxpudisai, why do we ase men doing
•hot which in wrung, and jurying thorn
mires su tht ground sfexpsdieaey! fin
*ve ojtzl l!tml|ile upas mher. he
headers abroad prejudice, ensyfog the poor
j^*** a r 15
whits mb against the pealed and plundered
meek wan,” the victim of his cupidity. and
is older to do this, be scatters abroad ignor
ance, shrouding the whole region in a red of
mental darkness, debarring the poor freeman
from the opportanhy of educating his chil
dren for ignorance, prejudice and crime am
a triumvirate of tyranny, acting and reacting
upon, producing and re-producing each
other.
allow die non-alaveholding population of
the south but a chance to expand their minds,
by the first rudiments of an engkaft educa
tion, and they will soon be convinced (hat it in
net only their duty, but no leaa their inteffcst,
to abolish that system which degrades labor
and they will rise in obedience to these man'
dates, and with their moral force and political
power, sweep it from the nation, in spite of
the calhoun, clays and mcduffies, who am
throwing the shield of their lofty intellect#
around it.
in support of these proposition, let n bu(
refer to the census of 1846, and make a
comparison between the north and south, in
their provisions for public ednatkw. by this,
we an that the number of seboim at pomio
charge ia the free states, were 439,173 in
the sine states, 35,686; whilst youag ohio,
which has been but recently redeemed from
the western forest, had 51,819 one-third
more than all of them whilst virginia, the
old dominion, the land of chivalry, had buf
9,761 and kentucky, the twin-sister of ohio,
bnt 499 what must be the state of edu
cation at the south!—what must be the intel
ligence of fee poor we may judge, when
out of 4,611 applicants fur marriage license in
96 counties of va», 1,041 men could not
wiitc their names. this and slavery are
i compatible this and liberty never can be
geo. mcduffie never uttered a truer senti
ment, than that m an mtelfcgent, enfranchised
people would continually revolt at slave in
stitution# the baws of a south carolina
beau ideal of a republcrau form, of govern
ment.
the 300,000 slaveowners know that their
darling institution will not bear the teat of
investigation, and therefore they prohibit alt
discussion, 44 declaring through their public
journals that the question of slavery ia not,
and shall not be open to discussion that tbo
moment any individual undertakes to lecture
them upon its evils, &c., at that moment
shall his tongue be cut out and cast upon a
dunghill.” they fear that a discussion of it
would enlighten and awaken the poor white
man to his interest, and that the 44 patriarchal
institution” would be doomed; hence this
censorship of the press, this fettering of
speech and mind
bat truth, crushed to earth,
wiujrisc again
a discussion at the north, will drive the
slaveholder at the south into a discussion of
it, by which the poor men w ill be enlightened
as to its character and operations. the dis
cussion of the subject was introduced in the
present congress by southern members,
(clingnian and others.) the slaveholding
oligarchy may as as well attempt to roll back
the waters of niagara, as they bound over
the summit, or stop bright sol in his onward
career, as to attempt to shut out the light that
is concentrating on their system. the poor
white man will learn that his rights are
wrapped up in the same bundle with the black
man’s, and that the rights of the ons esnnot
be violated without affecting those of the
other.
j. c. h.
brooklyn, l. 1., feb. 29, ’4b.
west winfield, feb. 2, 1848,
if dear friend doclass ln your account
of the meeting in our place, you refer to my
remarks, and i think you did not fully under
stand me. you will recollect that the meet
ing took a different turn from what many
had anticipated, and that a desultory discus
sion was for some time carried on between
our disunion and liberty party friends, on the
character of the u. s. constitution, and that
i stated that my views did not agree with ei
ther of them that i belived that there were
some offices that an honest man could nor
accept of, and others that he could. i staled
that i believed an oath was to be judged of
by the obligations a person taking ike oath,
thereby took upon himself; that the obliga
tions were to be ascertained by the expressed
requirements (of the government or people)
of the person qualifying. 1 contended that a
qualified asscsser of the town of winfield did
not take upon himself, by the qualifying oath,
any mote obligation to go and put down a
slave insurrection, than rested upon him be
fore he was so qualified and that the powers
that be, so acknowledged it, by the absence of
all special requirement on such person to do
such act. i stated that if s. s. foster resi
ded in winfield, and aeall was alike made on.
him and an assessor to go and help put down
an insurrection of the slaves, and should,
both refuse to go, for aught 1 knew, the pow
ers that be might chain them together, and
force them where they were ordered; but
that i knew no law that would inflict one-half
a hair’s weight of punishment upon the as
sessor, for such refusal, than upon friend
foster; and for the reason that tb« powers
that be had never considered that they had
placed suit! assessor under special obligation
to go, or that he had placed himself usds*
any special obligations by his oath to go. 1
stated umt mere assertions that yoti have
•worn to go, and that the oath meane so and
so, were mere assertions that aa oath was to
be judged of the world over by the obligations
thereby incurred, and that the governments
wove not slow to define what the obligation
vested on thoee qualifying were, by expressed
requirements. 1 stated that the state of
massachusetts had forbidden her state offi
cers, under point and penalties, from obstruct
ing the sight or arrest of the fugitive on our
ami, which few, i am informed, was passed
s accordance with ths deeitemi of the u. 8. s.
lowt, in ths pngg csss. now i believe
that we were badly cheated when our fathers
mode the eeretitotienal bargain, and that sla
very has takes, and can taka away, comtitu
tkmally, many of onr rights. but for uua
i do not wish to give up other rights, unless
it ha shown plainly, and not by mere amer
tisn, that it aa wrung to enjoy them. i iovo
hhertj more than thin union, and if slavery
•fl oontmas to lire and gam strength from
k, ihs aaonar kis dissolved the better. bull
rery remit dotefc if this result will be obtained
i ths aaanar by onr giving ap righto and pmi
leges, the enjoyment of which dot*
cessarily implicate us in the oppression of our
brethren in bondage. let us rote for no men
to fill office the duties of which ate crimi
nal. and let ua teach slaveholders that their
expectation* of aid from os are vain, unless
they can show that we are under special obli
gations to assist them, and then we will leave
our country, rather titan render them personal
assistance to crush the slave.
yours truly t
s. a. greene.
the fugitive slate.
it wjw in philadelphia, in the month o
november, ’4®, at the dark and lonely hour o
midnight, when creation wa* wrapped ti
aweet repose, and naught disturbed the sol
emn grandness of the darkness, save un
revelling* of some night ramblers, or th<
pitiable voice of the watchman a» he caller
the hour, or the distant roarings of th<
schuylkill, that we were wending our war
homeward from the western ponton of tb<
city, uhiii wc providentially fell in with
fugitive slave, soiitar.ly he went bis way
leaning on his staff, with a measured stop an<
a fearful timidity, sod an apparent d<-sire no
lo be observed. i perceived that he was s
wayfarer, and that his entire luggage con
aistrd of one old coat, thrown across hu
shoulders. a uttered cap of honicspur
cloth was drawn half over his countenance
his shoes nearly' sokdess, and his habiliment!
of linsey-woolsey were worn and torn and
ragged. i accosted him with the common
salutation, good morning, friend.’’ it was
just morning. the huge clock of the state
house bad just struck one, and its echoing*
were faintly dying away. he looked up, and
was evidently, as i, in the course of convey
"f sation discovered, but little disposed to notice
n»c, and less disjwsed to engage in conversa
tion with me, who might be either a friend or
<7 a loe. those of dark countenances dome
times, as well as those of fairer complexions,
for the mere gain of filthy lucre, shamefully
betray their own brother and sister into the
hands of the slaveholder. cases like these,
thank (rod, are few intf such have come
under my knowledge, and why disguise the
truth t it is for this reason that the slave
sometimes seeks to avoid his northern traitor
ous brother. poor unfortunate brother he
had been betrayed once in his pursuit of lib
j erty, after arriving as far as wilmington,
delaware!
his story was soon told it has been told
again and again to the indifferent million.—
ilis every lineament bore the marks of cruel
oppression; his every enunciation, and ap
pearance, told that his body and soul had
been crushed down many years under the
heavy chains and scorching lash of the heart
less slaveholder and relentless overseer.—
while he related the sorrows of liis heart,
the bitter pangs of liis mind for the fate oi
ftna family; while lie spoke of the ik>rrid
auction-block sale of liis wife and the prat
tling little ones* of their final separation and
condemnatmii to drag out a brutish existence
<on the slave-tilled pjantations of america, i
saw with compassion, the strong convulsive
.emotions of his breast.” said he, pointing
to that oft-sought star, that shone transpa
rently in the northern heavens, the beacon
light that illuminates the pathway and guides
the panting fugitive onward, from the stiikny
south” iu a land of liberty from tits boast
ed land .of .frendotn, to seek .shelter and pro
section iu victoria's dominions—“ see wiu
that star, «ir; it has guided me and brought
me safe so far. god only knows how i shall
hold out to the end.” i procured him some
refreshments, impressed the consolation of
slope and faith upon his anguished taind, and
(furnished him with other requisites to facili
tate his journey. giaeious nud benevolent
as some reea are acknowlfdgtd to he, in the
performance of noble deeds, they are eallous
.hearted and strangely indifferent in other hu
mane acis. the heart uf the true philan
thropist is clways moved io deeds of charity
»nd aid, iu ail the various responsibilities
which, by nature, and the immutable laws of
heaven', arc due from man to man. the
prayer of the devout christian ever ascends
heavenward, nightly and daily, in behalf of
sinful and erring humanity, and when wc at
night lay our heads upon our pillow, and ask
heaven for messing upon the poor and desti
tute, upon the forsaken, wretched family of
the inebriate, and to .stay tbc imminent danger
that surrounds the storm-tossed mariner, we
are apt to be forgetful of the poor slave, that
jus sundered the galling fetters and has
traversed by darkness the dismal swamps and
ilone, dreary forests, listening fearfully to evc
wy breeze and rustling leaf, shrinking from the
licwl and alarm of the farm dog, seeking con
cealment from the light of day, and fearing to
breathe or move a muscle, lest he he dis
covered and recaptured, and consigned again
to the infamous dungeon of american sla
very. c. e. seth.
springfield, feb. 1845.
philadelphia, feb. 22, 1848.
“wm. c. nell—my dear sir :—ln peru
sing a copy of the north star” of the 6th
uh m i observed an article cojued from the
cleveland democrat,” which says that the
great lafayette expressed himself to the be
nevolent clarkson in tho following language
i would never have drawn my sword in the
eauae of america, if i could have conceived
that thereby 1 was founding a land of
slavery.”
such, 1 doubt not, was the sentiment of
that valiant man but alas! not only have
thos? for yvjuw he drew his sword, exhausted
jbin means, and split his blood, founded, cher
ished, and are now trying to perpetuate the ec
cursed system of slavery and oppression, but
they have also made his own offspring to feel
the totter pangs, the eruel tortures of ameri
can slavery.
a circumstance that occurred about twenty,
three years ago in the city of my birth, and the
birth-place of our fathers—l mean the “land
of chivalry,” charleston, south carolina,'
jnay perhaps be interesting to your readers,
which induces me to address you at the pres
ent time.
you are aware of the visit to the principal
states of the union, by geti lafayette, in
1625, great demonstrations were made in
every quarter fat a suitable and magnificent
reception. the south carolinians were do- f
term tried to do their pari; consequently great
preparations were made to receive hun and
suite at charleston. after all form and me.
monies were duly arranged, a pccs/<er rrra/m*!
1625. great
itmce, arising from a peculiar forth trtioc o
the south,” was made bova la the riuamh
tee of amaganrat*.
behold a natural non a t gen, laf»jeue
with a family of ewdreo, an atoms in ou
audit; the lore of liberty from the father baa
t descended to the ooo; he defores to he free
and yet more, if pooaible, 4esbca that hh
children, those kttle onea which god gan
him, might be comudered his own; he re
fleet*; be determine*, if possible, to obtair
|*n interview with h» lather. the icaem
j bianco alone (although be had other eviden
ce*) is suflieictit to establish the idatioaahip
lie is more like the genual than bis son,
george washington lsfryette. never, in
deed, were father and son more alike.
this fact the committee and etril authori
ties knew and felt demanded serious attention.
it created great uneasiness, and much cogita
tion. the son of lafayette, with his family
of children, were held as chattels—slaves oi
one of those very citiaens who was preparing
to do homage to the illustrious guest. hu
degraded son intended to approach his sire,
and exclaim, "1 im a slave!** he had
hoped that by a private interview, which hon
orable men should not have frustrated, the
galling chain of slavery would hare been for
ever sundered.
but in this be was sorely disappointed. it
was determined that such a step sltould be
prevented. an expedient was soon found.-
colored lafayette was demanded from his
owner by the committee for investigation,
when by threats mid promises, (the usual
mode of slaveholders when coiucicrcc at
tempts its part,) he was prevented from his
purpose. he was deterred by threats of
stripes—by incarceration in the loathsome
dungeon—by death upon the scaffold. he
was promised that if he remained quiet, the
committee would ensure that the city authori
ties would make purchase of himself and
children, and emancipate them. but this,
like too many of the promises of slaveholders,
was made only to be disregarded. the poor
deluded man was deceived. the joy and hi
larity, mirth and pageantry, soon passed
away, and with them the promises of
liberty.
as time moved on, colored lafayette too
well perceived that his only hope was lost.—
dejection sat upon his countenance; the
chains of slavery, ever burdensome, were now
a thousand times heavier. of a broken
heart this son of lafayette died. not only
did the father descend to an untimely grave,
but his children, the grandchildren of gen.
lafayette, were held as slaves, and as late as
the year 1845, were subjected to the scourge
and tyranny of the cruel master.
alas! republican, democratic america!
are these the returns for the invaluable ser
vices rendered thee in 1776 by this lover of
liberty* arc these the returns of gratitude
for wasting his blood and treasure in freedom’s
cause shame upon thee, america arise
from ihv sleep; awake, and wipe this foul
blot from off thy fame reflect upon what
slavery has done, what it is capable of doing,
ir.d what it will continue to do, if not annihi
lated.
my dear sir, you may rely upon the above
«ta*emcnt as facts, for he who w rites knows
>f what he affirms, and will also take ccca
;ion to say, that what has been related is but
uunall part of what might be written con
:emi»g the workings of the peculiar insli
ution,” and southern chivalry. at some
viture irons you will again hear from
yours, most respectfully,
11.
temperance in rochester.
on sunday evening, march sth, freder
ick hoi'g£*se dejiwerad a loot ore bacbre the
rochester temperance society- the court
house was crowded by a highly respectable
and intelligent audience. after the ■prea
nninary services, singing and prayer, ihe pre
sident introduced mr. douglass, who ex
pressed himself in substance as fullovve
it is with emotions of sincere pleasure that
i rise to address you this evening. added to
the satisfaction winch i ever experience in
advocating any movement intended to pro
mote the wellbeing and happiness of my
fellow-countrymen, is that arising out of the
fact of being invited to address a white audi
ence wholly unconnected with the movement
with which i am especially and peculiarly
identified. it is quite a period in my ovvn, as
well as die history of the progress of free
principles in this city, for one of my com
plexion to be thus invited and thus honored.
t his pleasure and privilege i frequently en
joyed while in another country; but 1 believe
it is die first tunc i have been so honored in
this my own, my native land. i must, how
ever, be allowed to say, that though this is a
somewhat new theme for me, i cannot pro
mise to say anything new or original upon it.
the subject has been in one shape or another,
before the public nearly thirty yearn. during
thia time it has occupied the minds of many
of the wisest and best men of the nation.
it may be fairly questioned if any one popular
movement in this country ever drew out an
equal amount and variety of talent in it*
behalf. the bench, bar, and pulpit have
all contributed their eloquent streams to the
cool and ever refreshing tide of living water.
mighty, however, as has been all this com
bination, a mightier and more thrilling elo
quence is that which has come up from the.
dram-shop and gutter. the simple, straight
forward, unvarnished narration of individual
suffering—the graphic pictures of family dis
tress and ruin—the painful exhibition* of
shattered and broken constitutions—tf le
erful exposures of the subtle schemes and
alluring charms of rum-venders, have nearly
all come from this class of person*; ri who
have seen, heard, and felt, the working! of
the prison-house. there have reasoned
where reasoning was necessary the, de
nounced where denunciation and rebuke w ere
necessary. i therefore cannot flatter myself
with the hope of saying anything new; nor
do i deem h necessary, ft wilj be time
enough to uuer new truths, when the old
ones are admitted. the evil «f intemperance
is just what it was ten years ago. a man
drunk now behaves with the same folly
and extravagance as ten yean ago. lmcm
pemnee now is an much the parent of wreteh
odneas, want and mttsnsre, as ever it was.
the evil ceils as fondly lor removal, as ever
it did; and the means of oppoaing a are ns
powerful as arm they vm. this general
r nmenm almost precludes the pnssihility of
•ayinf anything new or striking on that
wbject.
in oodieme eoold testify to them u well m
himself, for they were risible in every (asm
of life —the object of every day’s observation
he wvehl therefor* motewt himself on the
present occasion with referring to the true
policy of operating sgsiasl it eowharh point
be won id spook with ptaamcas, which he
hoped they would appreciate, when reflecting
that he could hate no party purposes in riew.
j after illustrating the position of the w hole-
isale render, the dram-shop and bar-room
retailer, the geafceei and respectable moderate
drinker, the eager aspirant for political office,
[the church-members and demons, whose
proper influence wan withheld from reforming
the drunkard, and whose example, in too
many instances, had scaled his rain; all and
each of these classes would oftumes evade
the pointed rebuke, and transfer responsibility
from themselves to their neighbors, and were
1 all in a degree guilty; yet no one class was
wholly and only to blame; but the drinking
system was tl»e foundation of existing evils;
and this system it was the appropriate mission
of the friends of humanity to exon themselves
zealously to abolish.
after alluding to the many and effectual
ways of discountenancing the use of alcohol
—of rendering the trade, in its every mani
festation, disreputable—and of extending, in
the true washingtonian style, the hand of
sympathy and encouragement to- a fallen bro
j ther, the lecturer adverted to the injury which
the cause had sustained by being blended
j with politics. the reformation had been
j retarded, instead of accelerated. it had been
dragged down from its once lofty position,
l and been made the tool of demagogues—a
stepping-stone on which many had been pro
-1 moted to office; while the cause itself was
1 under no obligation to them for advancement.
1 it is probably one of the most difficult things
in the world to save a reformatory movement
from corruption. the thousands who may
i flock around its standard, are led there from
various motives aside from promoting the cause
itself. no moral reformation was ever con
summated by political maneuvering, as the
facts in the history of the anti-masomc,
anti-slavery, and the various other reforms,
abundantly proved. moral suasion was the
god-appointed means for reforming the world.
the mild and peaceful weapons of love are
more efficacious than those of force. he
i thought, the temperance party, in relying
j upon politics to advance the cause, were ex
j peeting more purity in the ballot-box than in
the church but it is vain to expect the stream
ito rise higher than the fountain. if the
church occupied a right position, its influence
would be powerfully felt on this question. in
thus expressing his dissent from what he pre
sumed to be the conviction of many of the
audience, lie asked only to be regarded as
honest and sincere, feeling assured of their
concurrence with him in the sentiment, that
even error might be safely tolerated, where
truth is free to combat it.
in the course of his remarks, mr. douglass
awarded an eloquent tribute to the rare vir
tues and zeal of father mattliew, as the
temperance redeemer of ireland. his labors
and sacrif.ces—his devotion to the cause,
could not be over-estimated. he had seen
hirn administer the pledge to thousands, and
had himself been presented with one of the
temperance medals, by the venerable father’s
own hand. ilis manner of appeal was
original and impressive, and geuerally suc
ceeded in persuading the multitude befote
him to knee! down and receive the temper
ance pledge.
mr. douglass observing many colored
citizens present, improved the opportunity of
enforcing upon them, in a special manner,
j their being enlisted under the temperance
banner, for this one, among other reasons,
that by their peculiar position in the land,
they could not afford to be otherwise. he
would bare llie colored people occupy a moral
eminence so high as to command the respect
'of an entire community. he invoked the co
operation of all, both white and black, in the
great cause of temperance; for as all who
used the intoxicating cup were degraded, in
hke degree would the condition of all be
1 elevated by abstaining entirely from its per
nicious influence; and this fact, he thought,
was potent in hself in establishing the identity
of the human family.
at the conclusion of mr. douglass's ad
j dress, a vote of thanks was unanimously ten
dered by the meeting; after which a dia
etissiun arose among the members as to the
!>est means of manifesting their temperance
i principles at the ensuing city election, during
which the merits of the several candidates
were freely canvassed. there were many
noble sentiments expressed by the speakers,
one of whom, (mr. greig.) congratulated the
meeting on the union now so happily mani
fested by advocates of temperance, anti
slavery, and other reforms. all were meet
ing on one platform, exchanging views, and
laboring hand in hand to hastes the “good
time coming.” names were being affixed to
the pledge, while a temperance hymn was
sung, aod the meeting adjourned, evidently
feeling that the cause of temperance had
gained a day.—w. c. x.
war on christian principles.
th« following anomalous paragraph may
be found in the proposed treaty of peace be
tween this country and mexico:
any future war that may break out be
tween mexico and the united states is to be
conducted on christian principles, and accord
ing to the usages of civilized nations.
there is here, first a confession of guilt;
and, secondly, a promise of amendment. the
confession— a war has been carried on with
mexico, not “in accordance with christian
principles and the usages of m&zed nations
the promise —that any future war that may
break out will be earned on on those principles.
the confession is somewhat unexpected; but
few will deny its troth. verily, the war has
not been conducted on christian principles.
no one who knows anything about chris
tianity will attempt to gainsay this assertion.
as to the usages of ao-ealkd criibsed nations
in the amftterof war, there is net amah differ
eaee between thank the harhnrilirs prvpn
(rated m war, whether between savage or
civ lined nations, me amazingly similar; tee
m vary little to choose between ten. per
iapt the arise tries sf the americas army ta

ir sr>r imu i>iwini>iff iiiswbwtelm slm'iivftuii
mexico were i fcttfa own iwhim than
natal. it is not needful to deny that there
lan bees mote than the nversge tmßritf
tapice, robbery, child tad wma afaeghter,
sod i mans than average ditph) of the fiend
ish npohilitirs of a degraded hteanuity. this
may or nay n«4 be ao; box as a pc&item con
famion of gmk h q«te acoonknce with
the custom of the repenting inmates of siag
sing aad other ndar plaeen far the safe*
keeping of evil-doers, tits! they shook, rather
than otherwise, over-estimate the hrirrnimriß
cf their crime. that the repenting mur
derars of the mexicans shook! do likewise,
(though it is indeed diffeemit to eoceette how
they cam pawl their crimes blacker than the
reality,) is therefore an nutter of wonder.
confession is the first step towards amend
ment. his good so far. but hare we bare
also a promise of better things; aad ia it bes
the difficulty. any future war tw
break out is to be conducted oa christian
principles, and in accordance with the usages
of civ dried nations.’* we here seen that
the mexican war, thus far, has not very
widely departed from those usages—that ia,
it has been carried oa in opposition to, and
to the destruction of every worthy sentiment
of bomanity. but a war conducted in
accordance with christian principles !’’—what
kind of war is that paul says, the wea
pons of our warfare are not carnal, but spirit
ual he had never beard of cannons, mus
kets, bombshells, and the other death-dealing
instruments of civilized warfare. he killed
neither men, women, nor children he
bombarded no towns, nor burned villages, nor
desolated countries. it seems, therefore, that
a war on christian principles cannot be in
accordance with civilized usages. how can
we explain this can mr. trist
explain may it not be, that the conclusion
of the sentence is merely a rhetorical flourish,
to which no particular meaning need be
attached? and that generals scott, taylor,
and the other christian warriors, having
learned by experience the cruelty, and bar
barity, and uiter inutility of the mode of war
fare which they have hitherto pursued, have
resolved on beating their swords into plough
shares, and their spears into priming-hooks,”
and taking, in their stead, the spiritual wea
pons of the ajiostle. well would it be for
the world if all the men of war, in this, and
all other countries, would speedily come to
the same laudable resolution. the heroes ol
the mexican war may perhaps handle their
weapons rather awkwardly at first; but they
will not on that account be discouraged. thev,
of all men, need not to be reminded that it is
always thus with the raw recruit and that
practice and discipline make tolerably good
soldiers out of the clumsiest and most inca
pable. may they soon have an opportunity
to commence this new war upon mexico!
their victories will be more glorious, in pro
portion as they will be less bloody. and
may they succeed in “conquering” another
peace—the peace of christianity—the peace
which their spiritual weapons of warfare art
designed to conquer peace on earth, and
good will a nong men —j. d.
tiie peace league.
the following correspondence of the peace
league, has been sent us, with a request to
publish it. wo cheerfully comply with the
request.
to the branch league spring port, new
york—
dear brethren: —separated though we
ire by the ocean, yet one in spirit we address
you, that wemay mutually stir up each other
and draw closer the cords of our brotherhood.
the nations have too long allowed princes
and statesmen to stand as false interpreters be
tween them, perverting their noblest feelings,
and thus have strife, ar.d discord, and hatred,
been perpetuated on earth. we greet you
as kindred souls, as fellow-workers for light
and truth, and we challenge you to an ardent,
yet deeply loving rivalry who can excel most
in this great cause—a contest from which
both must arise winners. it is heart-refreshing
to us, to hear of the progress which you are
making, even amidst the rumors of war: and
that lamentable struggle in w hich your coun
try is now engaged, wa firmly trust, will serve
but to prove more forcibly to all the iniquity
of violence. we, too, are gaining ground
many of the noblest thinkers of our country
have joined us, and many more though not
openly pledged, give us their support; oppo
sition and scorn we must, indeed, occasionally
endure, and our progress is often delayed by
the fears of the faint-hearted, but we can yet
look forward in that high hope which makes
realities,” to the day when the crown of the
tyrant, the chain of the slave, and the sword
of the warrior shall moulder in oblivion, and
there shall be but one nation on earth—an
earth basking in the sun-smile of a love-breath
ing god. but whilst thus feasting eye and
heart on the glories of the fnture, let us guard
against everything in onrsdves, that savors
of oppression and hate; let us seek and pluck
up the seeds of the war-spirit, even in small
est things, and even where most deeply hidden.
and now let us, strung in our mutual affection
go on gladly on our bright mission let us
joyfully bring to the cause whatever sacrifice
it may require, and stand ready to do all and
suffer all, that so the blood-stain may be ef
faced from the earth, and the tree golden age
realised.
we subscribe ourselves, deaf brethren,
one with you in heart for god and humanity.
signed on behalf of the fairfield and
droyladen branch league,
john andrew porter,
jobs wm. slate*, secretary.
sktlt or the bmusuifw*t uuovk«
dkab bbethses :—your affectionate and
heart-cheering ♦onwnßnieation, has bees re
ceived and breathing as it does, such a spirit
of demotion to the good of mankind, we fed
otnr ots souk stirred within as, to make
greater saenficcs, and to engage with new
aeal, in promoting the great objects of our
brotherhood. the sentiment* you express,
are eminently congenial m our minds; nad
coming as they d* (torn mar father-land, we
dnariah them, not only keeanan «f their in
tnnsie ticcusnee, but heeaase they are ema
antious iff the fatt-ganlung philanthropy of our
own kindred. the rivalry to which you chal
lenge os, we gladly accept, nor wts w« abase
ourehbrta, until the pnaopkast peace and
low, by which m would regulate out owe
conduct, exert thesrjust iainanea upon ah oas
nee. we do, iadeed, address yon from,
amhfat the nam of war,” and a war, too,
aa we apprehend, waged for dm him ms ot
awry: yn against is, baho we earnestly and
aatamaty protested; and we hope thai these
atrocities, perpetrated aa they have wen spot,
oar own borders, will not -only deepen am
fate union of this scourge of mm nee, hot
will also embolden multitudes of oar follow
eithßms, to join os in our heaven-begotten en
terprise. we fondly anticipate the day, when
war shall be so gsaeradj and deeply detested
by all the people of this republic, that by their
diligence u uix titrating the principles of peace,
they *iq do modi to remove the stain that
the prenest war has brought upon as; mid
every epistle, breathing the spirit of that with
which you have favored cs, will hasten this
glorious consummation. we rejoice to extend,
aa it were, mrr arms across the broad atlantic,
and to present to you our fraternal greeting.
we feel, that we are indeed, kindred spirits
and we are moved to do our tamest, to re
move every obstacle, that prevents the sweet
mingling of the nations into one. we hearti
ly respond to your exhnitat.on to go on "n our
mission of love yes, confident of the sacred
ness of our cause, and relying spun an al
mighty arm, we will devote our highest am
gies to the ciitusion of light and truth, until
peace on earth and good will to men” shall
be engraven on every mind.
public meeting op colored
citizens.
at a large and highly respectable meeting
of the colored citizens of buffalo, held, pur
suant to notice, at the vine street methodist
i church, on thursday evening, march 2d,
for the purpose of payiug some tribute of
respet to the memory of the late jobs q.
adams,
on motion of william walker, bet. geo.
weir was called to the chair, peyton harris
appointed vice president, and george weir,
jr., secretary.
the meeting being duly organized, the
throne of grace was fervently addressed
by the president, after which, the objects of
the meeting being stated, on motion to that
effect, mr. abner h. francis came for
i ward, and followed in an able and interesting
j eulogy upon the life and character of the de
ceased.
on motion,
resolved, that a vote of thanks be, and
hereby is tendered to the speaker for the able
discourse delivered.
after which, the following resolutions were
j offered by george weir, jr.:
whereas, the sad and lamentable news has
j reached us ot the death of the illustrious john
quincy adams, therefore, _
resolved, that this announcement, while
it bears to us the interposition of ths over
ruling hand of divine providence, brings
with it the garment of mourning, whose dra
pery has surrounded the hearts of every true
christian and philanthropist, and wdiich alone
j can be removed by the agency of the same
invisible hand, when we, like the patriot,shall
be summoned lo the spirit world.
resolved, that in the death of this distin
guished statesman, whose commanding voice
has been heard to echo in thundcriug tones
through the halls of congress, that body
has been bereft of one of the brightest orna
ments that ever adorned the councils of a
nation.
j resolved, that during the official career oi
this renowned orator, his eloquent and soul
stirring appeals in behalf of humanity, hit
untiring and ardent zeal in prosecuting to the
utmost extent every aggression upon the
rights of his countrymen with the severest
censure—his bold and manly efforts to rescue
the oppressed—have met our most hearty ap
-1 proval, and in every respect endeared him to
us as a friend to humanity and to god.
resolved, that in the death of mr. adams,
the councils of the nation have not only been
called upon to weep, but that the nation at
large has been called to realize the fact that
the morning star, w hich for half a century has
lighted up and shone forth its radiant glory
amid the starry canopy of an american gal
axy, has /alien, to rise no more, and that in
this dispensation we are alike called upon to
mourn and lament the fall of one so successful
in his career of earthly glory.
resolved, that as the star of the
served to guide the w ise men of old to the
sacred manger in bethlehem, so should the
life of adams serve as a way-mark to every
principle of moral excellence and intellectual
ability.
resolved, that in the last expiring mo
ments of mr. adams, while that voice from
the eternal world at whose command mount!
sinai trembling stood, was about in his
divine wisdom to extinguish the last vital 1
spark, he, like a departing patriot, could look
back upon a life consecrated wholly to the
service of his country, with the beautiful sen
timents of consistency and humanity embla
zoned upon the pathway of his illustrious ca- 1
reer.
after reading, the several resolutions were 1
adopted tu full.
resolved, that the proceedings of this!
meeting, together with the eulogy, be pub
lished in the several city papers.
resolved. that messrs. george weir, jr.,'
norris needham and jordon undurwood, con
stitute a publishing committee.
george weir, president.
george wei*, jr., sec y.
white slavery.
we hare been furnished with ihe foljowing
facia in regard to white slavery at the sooth
by a gentleman now there. such thing* are
'to be expected. he that would enslave a
colored person for money, would also a white
person. a conscience that would permit the
one would the other also. it was truly said
by the her. john wader, that slavery
iwas the sum of all tihanß-s.” indeed h
diiheuit to imagine a erime which is not com-!
a white slate.— washington, a white
boy, was taken from virginia to south caro- j
liaa at the age of seven, and thence to geor
gia, and sold to col. b. h» daughter, the
bdy of a lawyer, related to me the fact, say
tng that the little fellow used to tell the story
!to their children and weep. ills tale was
i this. that bin mother was very poor, 2nd as j
r the time when the was wek, he was placed;
jin a negro quarter,” m the care of a negro j
woman, and at night a man came and tied his!
feet and hands and took him on horseback.—
he wept, and tried to scream; but the wretch
placed his hands over bin mouth. col b.’i
wife prohibited his telling ihe story to the
children, because is made theta weep and un
happy. waah” died the dw« of cm. 8.,
at the age of 2d.
awtmrca.— ehra was the offspring of
parent* m virginia, hi high hfe hot to con
ceal th air nit, their child, whew an infant,
wan placed wish a me a» the negro qnat
te*a» and then famed. she wan a few yean
ago sold, and an now owned by mr.
southern city. she in white, and has no no
gro meed ta her ceaapoeition, and has raised
up a family of colored children. she is very
badly framed.
tim fan was fold am by a wy, fae wifa
of judge a slaveholder, who resides in
ths same city.
btiu ansthci.—a lew years ago, a "nr-
s rader" exchanged a colored sjava for a
ftrl oahmamval is alabama, two
we ahvehomem protested that the ehi.’d
waa whits, aad finally paid $4w> for her, and
her to georgia, where it was asrrr*
tonwd that her prn-su died phor, and that she
t** “t* tlw rretbroen rest
jt i candtnu. ibe
s. "*7"s “j- .fcc
from the boston arthur
alexandre dumas.
public charity is terally developed
in the united stales at a meeting, with
its president, vice president*, secre
taries, committees of nine and sub
committees of three filling up the
newspapers with long strings of empty
resolutions. when john pull gives
anything, it is after a good dinner, en
livened by “rule britannia from a
brass band, and the hip—hip—hurra
of a red-nosed toast-master. the
germans send a pretty girl to knock at
a man’s door, (accompanied by a du
enna,) and hold out a purse with leh
habe es nothing backed by a silver*
winning smile. in spain the benefi
ciaries get up a bull-tight; and mehemct
ali extracts alms from the purses of his
egyptian subjects with the aid of a file
of soldiors. but in france, that land
ho especially devoted to the worship of
terpsichore, charity calls the figures
in a ball-room; and of the many given
every winter, the most profitable, as
well as the most interesting, is the
ball of the dramatic fund.” this is
generally held in one of the opera'
homes, fitted up for the purpose, and<
strangers attend to see the literary cel
ebrities and pretty actresses. rachel,
grisi, and the other priestesses ol
melpomene, hold their courts in the
boxes where the men of letters pay
their homage; while mingling in the j
dance with untiring spirit, may be seen
thalia's merry servitors, headed by j
dejazet and rose cheri. the first
1 mentioned class are in full ball dress,:
several wearing jewels which a duch
j ess might envy; bat their livelier sis
ters arc attired in all sorts of eccentric
and anomalous costumes, many proving
the known propensity of the fair sex toi
assume the habiliments of the lords of.
creation.
five years since—it was my first
month in paris—l attended one of these
balls, and gazed about as any young:
man would, who had just been trans-.
planted from the southern backwoods;
to a gay metropolis.' a kind friend
pointed out the most noted personages
present, and when the evening was half
spent took me into the box of madame j
rachel, to whom lie presented me.
reserving the queen of tragedy for a
future portrait, i shall not now describe!
her, or her conversation, which was:
suddenly interrupted, by the entrance;
of a tall, fashionably dressed man who
kissed madame rachel’s hand, and
was cordially received. and yet i felt
a strong disposition to kick him out of
the box! why? because, as i have
just said, i was fresh from the “sunny
sonth,” and it seemed wrong for a
tcltile lady, of such acknowledged talent, i
to be so familiary treated by a mulatto.
yes, the newcomer was a mulatto, with
thick lips, a frizzled woolly head, and
all the peculiarities of the negro race.
luckily for him, though, lie does not
inhabit a land of liberty”—his breast
is covered with the jewelled orders be
stowed upon him by the soverigns of
europe—he is a guest at their tables—
he lives in a more princely style than
any man in america—anti all strangers
visiting paris consider it a rare favour
to be introducced to this mulatto —al-i
exandre dumas.
dumas was born at villcrs cottcrets,
a small french hamlet, on the 23d of!
july, 1803. his mother was from the!
west indies; his father was an officer
in napoleon’s army, where his bravery
won him a general’s commission, but he;
died thirty-seven days before he had
served thirty years—necessary in order
to obtain a pension for his widow. the
public treasury thus economized the
widow’s mite, and she had nothing but
thirty acres of ground, to the proceeds,
of which she was soon enabled to join
six hundred francs a year, the rent of a
license to sell tobacco. this was ob-!
tamed for her by m. dc violaines, her
cousin, who was forest guard of the!
duke of orleans, now king, and by i
his advice alexandre was sent to a
village school, kept by an old priest,
who charged his scholars sixty cents a
month.
i here dumas acquired his education,
and at the age of fifteen was apprenticed
to a notary public, in whose office he
j copied deeds until he was twenty,
only dreaming of some day becoming
notary general of the district. just
then the count dc leuven was exiled
from paris by the bourbons, and coming
to reside at villers cottcrets, dumas
became acquainted w ith young adolphe
de leuven, who had just left college. 1
he inflamed dumas with a desire to f
compose pieces for the theatres, and
the two young men wrote a vaudeville
1 called un diner d’jlnis. it was sent
to a manager, hut he refused to have it
performed, alleging that it w’ould cer
tainly be hissed—a refusal that only
stimulated the writers to compose
i another. but the literary partnership
was dissolved by the return of the
lcuvensto paris, and dumas determin
ed to follow them. his mother sold her
plot of land, giving him sixty francs,
(less than twelve dollars,) and her
blessing—he played a game of dominoes
with the stage proprietor, and won !ti<
1 place. arrived at paris, he hired a
small garret at a hotel in the place de*
italians, and called on general foy,
who had been his father's friend, to ask
for some situation which would enable
him to gain his bread, until his litcran
labours were productive,
what canst thou do r” asked the
general.
nothing,” replied dumas.
“nothing! why thou must know
a little of mathematics, of drawing, of
grammar, of latin—in fact all those
studies that every one knows?”
no, general, j must say that 1
have never been a very hard student,
and am deplorably ignorant.*’
diablc! that is embarrassing
no matter—leave me your address
and i will see what i can find for the<
to do."
dumas sat down at a table, tool
•ome paper, and wrote. the general
who had been watching him, crier
>ut
hell, well! didst thou not sa*
thou didst not know am thing? and 1
see thy hand-writing is splendid. tha
is something, and i hope will procun
thee a good place."
three year* afterwards dumas en
•••led the sturtirj i offi. yf th*
duke of orleans, as copying clerk,
nnd soon brought out, with de leuven
and rousoeau, a piece, called the
chaste, m f amour which had fifty
representations, and brought dim four
francs each time, la france, literary
property is regarded as the result ol
the most noble faculties of man, and is
entitled to the same protection as any
merchandise. here in america, if a
wealthy manufacturer purchases a
patent right, the law enables him to
recompense himself for his investment;
while the editor, who pays a high price
for an article, sees it copied into sheets
which boast of being “cheaper than
any ether,” without the slightest ac
knowledgment.
dumas’s success as a dramatic writer
soon placed him in independent cireuro
mances; but like the ancient warrior
who sighed for more worlds to conquer,
he was not content with the applause ol
the theatre, and became a romancer.
this class of writings the french claim
as peculiarly and entirely their own.
the ramon dn bruit one of the oldest
works in their language, was composed
in the middle of the twelfth century,
and was soon followed by the romans
de la table ronde, which exercised so
great an influence on (the chivalry of
europe. louis the ,eleventh —that
blood-thirsty monarch —-is said to have
amused himself from time to ime, in
writing some little obscene story. anne
of austria, introduced the gallant stories
of spain, and madame de scuderi
penned long talcs composed of heroism,
scepticism, and love. then came
mademoiselle de lafayette, who took
1 for her object truth and nature, rejecting
the princesse de cleren, in the same
spirit, as that in which her friend, mad
ame de sevigne, wrote her letters.
fcnelon, that brilliant genius of louis
xiv’s court, raised the romance to an
unhoped-for dignity, by bis telemayue,
a work which homer and plato com
bined, could not have surpassed.
with the eighteenth century came
gil bias, which is to france what don
quixote is to spain, and tom jones to
england. voltaire wrote his heloise,
i that burning story of young love, and
then, after the virginie of bernardin de
st. pierre had flung its chaste light
over french romance, that romance be
came extinguished—as the century it
self was extinguished—in corruption
and in vice. democracy ruled trium
phant, and the guillotine was more at
tractive than tive purest creations of the
mind.
but there was a woman who brought
back hope to the lovers-of french ro
mance—a woman whose mind opposed
napoleon, whose eye pierced to the
bottom of his soul, and sounded all the
most hidden depths of his heart. mad
am de stael swayed at her will a thous
and varied passions, and her corinne
is one of the inaster-pieces of romance.
and her delphiue too, where one finds
the germs of her subsequently devel
oped opinions, the romance of her own
life, though her death is not there.—
she passed away in paris, in 1817, and!
but an hour before she gave up the
ghost requested to be permitted to look
once more upon the sun. her friends
carried her into her garden, and there,
under the shade of a favorite rose tree,
she gave them its leaves as souvenirs,
with words of affection, of love, of hope.
madame de genlis came next, that
volatile woman, who instilled everything
but moral principle into the mind of
louis philippe. the exiles dc la si
berie of madame cottin not only im
mortalized her, but gave to silvio pclico
the first idea of his le mic peigioni;
and here we are, arrived at the present
epoque, when romance has left its
thin volumes and the shelves of cir
culating libraries. you will find it in
the columns of the daily press, the in
tellectual life of the nineteenth century
—the groat agent of moral civilization,
as dickens culls it. long and brilliant
has thus been the 9way of romance in
france, and the most popular of its min
istering writers, by far, is alexandre
dumas. his writings are read with far
greater avidity than those of sue, or
balzac, or even that gifted woman
whose syren-like thoughts win the
heart, while they destroy its purity—
george sand.
dumas resides near st. germain, on
the road to marley, formerly inhabited
by louis the xiv. and now the summer
retreat of many a literary character,
among the rest mr. vattemare, whose
system of international exchange is so
much talked of. the invited goes by rail
road to st.gcrmain, where dumas’car
riage with richly liveried servants, is in
1 waiting, and his blood horses soon whirl
you to the terrace before the chateau.
i here you can see the old palace in
which james 11. died, the pavilion in
which louis xiv. was born, the house
j of sully, the aqueduct of marly, the
winding seine, and paris in the distance.
the chateau eclipses all buildings in its
vicinity, and though far inferior in size
i to many, is probably the most beautiful
structure in the world. it is built ol
white cut stjne, exquisitely carved a
bout the doors and windows, after the
models of jeau goujou, and is a reali
zation, without and within, of the castles
erected in the clouds, by young hearts,
in their dreamy hours. there is a
i drawingroom, gorgeous with gold and
scarlet—a library, wh zse shelves groan
under richly bolind volumes—a conaer*
vatory, filled with exotics—an armory,
j containing gift* from sovereigns—an
eating-room, furnished with carved oak,
and under it a wine cellar which would
tempt a temperance lecturer.
behind the house there is a large
garden; in the centre of the garden
there is a large pond; in the centre of
the pond there is a small pavilion, and
reaching it by small boat, you will find
duinas.—there he labors like sisyphus,
from dawn to late at night, surrounded
by some half dozen collaborateurg.
one of these is perhaps engaged on a
romance, another on a history, another
m a drama, another answering letter*
—and 1 have heard it said that briarens,
with his hundred arms, could m 4 write
is much as dumas composes; while old
boreas himself would be exhausted ii
he attempt'd to fuilow las uupn*rtm*
’ions. say, for instance, that a histori*
cal romance is ordered for some news
paper. dumas sends a young man to
ransack the royal library for notes
illustrating the epoch. these are rend
o lam at night, when lie has gone to
red tired out, and the im it morning one
4 his collah >ralcurs receives the ptet.
when he has worked it «j», dumas
hears it ft ad, ordering additions and
corrections. this is done two or three
times, and then he copies it out lor the
press; for every line that appears un
der his signature goes to the printer in
his own hand writing. a fine large
round hand it too* remarkably clear,
and never degenerating in neatness at
the clone, as most men’s do.
damns’ pea is mortgaged to the
preee and canstiiuriomiel, to each of
which he agreed, some two years since
in furnish nine thin volumes, for five
successive ygurs—receiving upwards
of $1*2,000 per annum. he has also
the profits arising from their subsequent
publication in book form, and the repre
sentation of his dramas. not long ago,
he was one night at the theatre, suoer
intending the rehearsal of one of his
dramas, and complained that the stage
eras too small. m build a theatre lor
yourself, and make me stage manager,
said the master carpenter —in eleven
months the theatre historiquc was
opened. it surpasses any theatre in
the world in the historical correctness
i of its costumes and richness of decora-
i tion, and only represents dnmas’ origi
nal pieces. some of these are derived
from his works, others translated, and
i lie has just rendered to the parisians
the burning words of passion, of love,
of hatred, and of glory, spoken by the
bard of avon, in all their original sub
limity.
to give even a brief sketch of du
mas’ romances, would be a ycar,s labor.
monte christo stands unrivalled, unless
it be by the mcmoires d’un mcdecin,
whichdcscribesthefallof theßastile.the
directory, the empire, and the resto
ration. the vicointe de bragelonne,
now published in the siccle, is full of
interest and emotion, and a remarkable
book, though replete with improbabili
ties.
ilb travels in italy and syria all are
familiar with, and, like his recent work
on spain, gives a more correct idea of
1 the country than could be accomplished
by the most laboured delineations. he
visited spain in the suite of the duke
de montpensier, and his personal ap
pearance, sparkling wit, and generous
extravagance, created a great sensation
at madrid. he was seranaded, salu
ted by applause at the theatres, and had
his praises chanted by all the many
poets. none ofthese ovations are men
tioned in his book, in which a mere
of the amusing personal ad
ventures of his friends serves as a can
vas on which to give vivid sketches of
national peculiarities and manners.—
lie was enabled, while in spain, to in
dulge his love of dress and gallantry—
vices to which he is much addicted
and on his return found that his ser
vants had plundered his house and wine
cellar most unmercifully—yet such, w as
the sale of his book, that the voyage
was a clear gain of nearly four thousand
dollars. there is only one country
i w ish to see," said dumas last spring,
as we were taking a cup of coffee to
gether one day on the boulevard.
“and what country is that;” i asked.
“america.” coine over, then; it
is but a fortnight’s journey." “the
distance is nothing, but the idea that i
might be insulted on account of my
complexion, is a sufficient barrier to
keep me away. why, sir, i was on
my way to st. germain one day in the
cars, and though my knowledge of eng-!
lish is imperfect, distinctly understood j
a lady to say, that in the united states
i would he expelled from the car.”
an apprentices way of ac
quiring a library.
“why, frank wilson! how
where on earth did you get these
books? here? what? the ivnicker-;
bocker, too! and the north american?,
now, frank, i have ten dollars a year
more than you; yet i have to send
down to father for money almost every
month. you take the knickerbocker,
indeed! why there are none but;
’squire w r aters and dr. marvin in the'
whole town who think themselves able
to have such a costly work, which is
only meant for a few rich people toi
read. pretty well, eh for a poor ap
prentice. where did you get that
book-case, and all those books that you;
have got stuck up there? let’s see;
plutarch’s livesl who’s he? what’s
that about? rollin’s jlncicnl history!
why didn’t he write it in one small book
as w’ell as to have a dozen about it?—
gibbon’s rome! there is no such place
in the united states. w t hy, my dear
fellow, whaf a long list of outlandish
names you have got here! let me
sce milton, shakespeare, young,
pope, drjden, cowper. bacon, locke,
goldsmith, and all other smiths in cre
atjon, as well as those in america!—
n >w, come, i will light my havana,
ai d sit down here, and give you a
i eti ance to explain howr you, an appren
tiqe, with only forty dollars a year,
cqntrive to scrape together a library
iulf as large as parson dayton’s?"
francis wilson did not interrupt this
iuj errogatory and exclamatory medley
op words from his comrade, by an ex
planation, until he had exhausted all his
incoherent inquiries. sitting down in
the proffered chair, and lighting his
long nine, edward saunders placed his
i feet upon his friend’s clean desk, and
seemed really to be waiting for a de
tailed account of the modus operandi
by which an apprentice could acquire
honestly such a collection of books.—
nor did frank hesitate to gratiiy his
curiosity. both of the young men
were in the middle of their apprentice
ship, and the most cordial intimacy had
subsisted between them from their
youth. edward was deficient in noth
ing so much as in expending his small
annuity, and francis hit upon a very
l successful method of administering to
bis young friend a salutary lesson upon
this subject, while he explained how an
apprentice could acquire a taste, and
the means for the cultivation of his in
tellect.
edward," said he, taking op his
pencil, ««1 will explain to you in fig
ures, what seems to have excited your
wonder, if you will permit me by the
i way of asking yon a few questions in
order to solve the problem. 1 see you
are very food of smoking; how many
i cigars do you buy a weak
oh, none, of any account," re
plied edward, anticipating some un
pleasant strictures upon his fevorite
practise, n after working all day, k it
.ready a comfort in u«xe the genuine
hanoi; it does not amount to i*jr
thing i smolre only six in tks course
of the whole week."
“six havanas s week,” repealed
francis, putting it down spas paper,
with as much formality as if he eras
registering the date of a problem.
six a week, at two easts a iriece,
amount to the trifling sum of six dollars
and twenty-four cents per annum. i
suppose you speod n trifle at tbm fruit
shops,” continued francis.”
nothing worth mentioning,” con
tinued edward, rather startled at the
aggregate of such little itemsr “ell
that 1 buy—apples, nuts, raisins, figs,
oranges, &c., ac.—do not amount to
more than nine pence a week. why,
that's not half as much as tom wil
liams, the goldsmith’s apprentice buys.
besides, francis, you know i never
taste a drop of any kind of liquor, not
even wine. you certainly can't think
that 1 lack economy, frankf”
“ninepence a week for nuts, raisins,
oranges and figs,*' repeated francis,
in a low, serious tone, pronouncing the
items, one by one, as he wrote them
down,with all the precision and gravity
of a clerk in a counting room. nine
pence a week amounts to six dollars and
fifty cents per annum, which added to
six dollars and twenty-four cents spent
for cigars, mokes the trifling sum of
twelve dollars and seventy-four cents
for one year. now, edward, sec what
i have obtained for just this sum.—
“here,” said he, taking down several
neatly bound volumes of the american
review, and a handful of the knicker-;
i have bought all these for a
less sum than you have paid for cigars,
nuts, &c., during the past year. and
as for these other books which you see
here in my case, i will tell you how i
obtained them, and how any other ap
prentice can do the same, with only
$33 a year too. you know our mas
ters are very industrious, steady men,
and are attentive in their business, and
like to see their apprentices with a book
in their hands, when they have done
their work, rather than lounging about
at the taverns, or in vicious company.
so when my master saw that i liked to
read every chance that i could get, and
spend all the money i could spare fori
books, he offered to give a ninepence j
an hour for all the time i would work
from twelve to one o’clock p. m, and
this is the way, edward, that i have
bought my books, which you thought 1!
had borrowed, begged or stolen. i i
work every noontime half an hour, and.
earn every fortnight enough to buy one j
of these books—milton’s paradise lost,,
for instance. to be sure, they are not
bound in calf, nor are they gilt-edged; j
but they contain the same matter as;
if they were, and that’s enough for
i
me.
when edward saunders had listened!
to this very interesting and simple cx-j
planation of his uncle’s apprentice, and
had passed his eyes over all the fine
books in his little library, he arose sud
denly at the last words of francis, and
opened his little chamber window—took
out of his hat the half dozen cigars
which was to constitute his week’s
stock of comfort, and without saying a
word, tossed them into the garden. a
new fire of animation lit up his eye,
as he darted out of the room, 'turning
only at the door to say, i'll try 1 1
frank!”
edward saunders, esq., and the
hon. francis wilson never forgot, in
their intimate intercourse in after life,
their mutual computation of the cost of!
nuts and cigars in the garret of the;
latter.
rev. j. w. loguen.
conspicuous among the colored men
of talent and moral worth in this state,
stands the gentleman asove-named,
who is now a resident of syracuse.
though but a few years have elapsed
since his escape from the house of
bondage,” where the other members of
his mother’s family are still “toiling—
toiling.” mr. loguen has made use
of his mind and heart, so as fairly to
have placed himself in the same en
nobled category with samuel r. ward,
henry h. garnet, frederick douglass,
and others of their complexion, who
are not unknown to the people of the
empire state.
mr, loguen is at present officiating
as presiding cider among the several
colored societies of the methodist de
nomination in central new yoak, and
has visited little falls three or four'
times in that capacity during the past
year. at each succeeding visit he has
made a deep and broad impression by
his talents, eloquence and evident sin
cerity. i
this worthy brother arrived here on
the 12th inst., and spent nearly a week
in the vicinity, preaching several times
at the school-house, and attending
one or two meetings out of town. on
sunday evening, the 13th, he gave us
a powerful discourse from acts x. 34,
35—a discourse that richly deserves)
to he published, and which would put
te shame four-fifths of the stuff that
passes for pulpit oratory at this day.
on thursday evening, mr. l. gave
his closing address to his brethren at
this place, taking as the basis of his,
remarks the sermon on the mount; and
seldom have we heard a more earnest,
faithful and truly admirable inculcation
of christian duty. though by no
means concurring with mr. loguen i
in all his theological views, we find)
him so clear-beaded, sound and un
compromising as a temperance man
and an abolitionist, and so eloquent j
withal, that we cannot withhold this
brief tribute of our admiration.
we are glad to learn that brother
l. proposes to spend a week or two ere
long, in speaking to the people at dil-j
terent points in this county. all who.
can will do well to go and hear him.—j
herkimer freeman.
eaelt rising.—the famous philo
sopher, the really great czar peter, of
russia, always rose two hours before
day, and when he saw the morning i
break, would express his wonder that]
any man should be so stupid as not to
rise every morning to behold one of
the most glorious sights in the universe.
men take delight,’ said be, ‘in gazing
on n picture, the trifling work of a
anctpainled by** the deity himself. fee
my part,’ added he, i am far making
mythic asking as^ i tw, andtherefore
authors.
how and where do authors write? are
questions thus answered by a corre
spondent of the home journal:
lest any romantic reader of charm
ing l. e. l. should be led to believe
that her passion breathing poems were
born in some fairy bower, under a mid
summer sky, warm, rich, and glowing
as her own italian soul, a friend of hers
has recorded that she wrote in “a
homely-looking, almost uncomfortable
room, fronting the street, and barely
furnished.”
after this, let no one ask, where the
pen first traced the soft imaginings,
the exquisite pictures of st. agnes’
eve. one would wish no visions of
narrow tables, worn writing-desks, and
high-backed chairs, to come between
him and madeline “asleep in the lap
of legends old;” with that pure, dream
ing face bathed in the pale, silver,
twilight of the fading morn.”
and shelley's song of melting sweet
oess, where had it birth?—that song
the very essence of all that is beautiful
in passion:
tb* wandering airs they feint
on the dark, the wilerrt stream,
the rhampak-udnra fail,
like sweet thueght* in a dream.”
were not those lines written while
floating in some moon-fit sea, in a* ibve
freighted bark, with none to share it
but thee and me,” swayed gently to and
fro, over the rippling waters, with the
son! sinking to soft slumber, lulled
by the music of its measured motion?”
believe it, i pray you.
campbell wrote best in the morning,
calmly, with a heart which throbbed
never so tumultuously but he could
count its beatings; byron, when night,
and darkness, and storin, accorded
with the lightning elements of his soul.
campbell once said, i have ever
been an early riser, and have done the
chief part of my writing before break
fast. one’s thoughts then arc purer—
one's feelings more spiritual.”
a clear-minded divine of new eng
land, a deep thinker and fine scholar,
chooses night, after a day of severe
toil in the open air, believing that then
the mind is strongest, the judgment
clearest.
jean paul, the only one—the man
divinely commissioned to write—sifting
in that little room, with his hustling
mother’? household affairs, and some
times the chatter of gossipping women
going on around him, wrote those
beautiful extravagancies, those sun
bright thoughts, those strange conceits,
over all which fell a golden radiance
from his cheerful spirit.
in a quiet part of london, not far
from the thames, in a second-story
chamber, is carlyle’s thought-shop.
why is it not in some wild place of
that picturesque scotland,whose craggy
roughness seems stamped with an iron
hand upon his rocky nature
goldsmith wrote hopefully, courage
ously from his meagre garret. thomp
son sketched pictures of the morning,
while too indolent to go forth to breathe
its freshness—to behold its beauty.
how docs barry cornwall write?”
and where?
“seated beside this sherris wine,
and near to hooks and shapes divine,
which poets and the painters past
have wrote in lines that aye shall last—
e’en i, with shakespeare’s self hesiile me,
and one whose tciwler talk shall "ttulc me.
thro* fears and pains and troublous themes
whose smile shall full upon mjr dreams,
like mtn«liitie on a stormy day.”
barry cornwall writes in his home—
a home whose domestic happiness is f
refined by the purest intellectual en
joyment—a home which is a sanctuary,
in whose cool, delicious stillness, a
weary heart in man, shaking off the
spirit-staining dust of the world at its
threshold, could enter, asking and find
ing peace and sweet repose. with
the mother and the child—his fair wife
“golden-tressed ’’adelaide beside him,
what wonder that his fireside fancies
should shape themselves in loving
poesy
felicia hemans and l. e. l. wrote
with the deepest enjoyment to the tones)
of music.
upward still.— sad and dark are
some of the pictures of life which we are
forced to study, there are others which
cheer and inspire our hearts with hope, i
it is a glorious faith that human pro
gress never will reach its zenith—but
that every new step onward and upward
is the prophecy of a higher and better
development the fulfilment of
its own prediction. each new victory
of truth aud right, gives courage and
ardor to their friends, and withdraws
strength and confidence from their ene
mies, and often in the present age is
the heart of the philanthropist encour
aged by the signs of an increasing
spirit of justice and love among the peo
ple. facts are almost daily bringing
proof that the truth has not been spoken
for nought, and reform labor has not
been spent in vain, that the seed sown
in sorrow and discouragement is bear
ing rich harvest to the sower. front
time to time we have recounted some ol j
these promises of a better day. eman
cipation in tunis, egypt, the danish
colonies, bohemia, and wallachia, the
abolition of the slave mart at constan
tinople, are a few among these “proph
ets of the dawning.” the late tidings
from europe tell of another act of
emancipation, which goes to swell the)
triumphs of freedom. it shows that the j
warm pulse of humanity beats among,
the rugged and cold mountains of north-;
era europe. sweden has proclaimed
complete emancipation of the slaves in,
the island of st. bartholomew. two
proclamations of the governor of the
island are published in the st. kitts
advertiser of nov. 23th, announcing
the abolition of slavery throughout the
island. this act of the swedish go
vernment is of itself a refutation of the
stale and foolish assertions that eman
cipation had ruined the british col
onies; for in full view of the working
of that grand policy of freedom, den-
mark and sweden have voluntarily)
broken down the system of centuries,
and adopted the british reform into,
their colonial codes. they have not 1
taken this step without counting the
cost, nor without studying carefully the 1
results of the english experiment.
such a esurss from eld conserve! tea
msnarchiss is n most smphade lent!.
mtmy that tha cry of ruin raised over
wnt india smancipilion in the crank
**g of false witnesses.—pena. eras.
frew as phtaturgli saturday via*wr.
mas. swi*shelw:—allow me to
congratulate rou upon your new vor*.
tion—that of the editress of a par* r
and that a paper, too, whose voice wti
be heard in behalf of freedom and
peace.
at such an hour as this, when n r
three millions of slaves are clanking
their chains on our soil, with prinrj
palities and powers” against them, and
while the spirit of war is sweeping ove r
the land with whirlwind fury, and me n
are rampant for blood, it is reviving ard
encouraging that a voice may here and
there be heard from among the multi
tude pleading for peace and liberty
and where a woman, possessing suffii
cient moral heroism and self-reliance
to break the shackles which surround
her, and to grapple with these popu
lar sins giving utterance to great
truths in behalf of humanity, in tone*
that cannot be misunderstood, it is par
ticularly encouraging.
let conquerors boast of their fitldi of fan*,”
he who in the dignity of his manhood
firmly stands up for the right, reiving
for victory, not on swords and bomb
shells, but upon everlasting truth, and
goes forth to meet the foes of right
eousness,
i* the b*»i, bramt conqueror of them at!.*’
such a one—be they male or female, in
invulnerable to all the fiery darts of fhv
wicked—against whom “the gates of
hell caunot prevail.” one such “shall
chase a thousand, and two pot rcn>
thousand to flight.”
though we do adopt different mers
ures to arrive at the same end, 1 can
but wish you success, and hope you
will never falter in the mighty conflict
against wrong. if faithful, your re
ward shall be sure. the conscious
ness of being right, and standing up
for the oppressed under all circumstan
ces, is unspeakably precious. what
in comparison to it?—the ermined robe,
the ivory sceptre, the golden throne,
the jeweled diadem?” let tny name
ever be fouyd, how ever o dross it may
be, on the side of the oppressed,
rather than the oppressor; and if i err,
let it be on the side of mercy and for
giveness.
what are our great statesmen, our
distinguished clergymen and doctors of
divinity, at this moment engaged in?
are they using their talents and influ
ence to promote peace, freedom and
love, to stay the progress of slavery,
and war, and oppression? alas! how
few among them have the manhood, the
heroism to speak out in manly tones
against them. w hen their influence
is not given in favor of these things by
outspoken endorsement, they by their
silence give consent,” and thus tho
reign of slavery is prolonged, and war
1 c' nti lues to brandish his bloody battle j
axe, making this earth “a vale of tears”
|to millions, and planting thorns and
briars, where otherwise would bloom
the roses of hope, and flowers of radi
ent beauty and loveliness. why are
not these men heard on the side of
truth and righteousness, on the side of
the oppressed rather than the oppress
or? how paltry are their excuses!—
how insignificant!—how- demeanin'*!
unworthy, truthful and honest men?
but it will not always be thus. the
tide of humanity is rising. the course
of truth is onward, like rivers to the
sea, and it will yet sweep from the earth
all forms of wrong, from its own inhe
rent oinnipotcncy. error is of a day,
an age; truth is immortal and uncon
querable. let this great principle he
impressed on the nation’s heart, that he
is false to god who is false to man.”
yours faithfully, for the good time
coming,”
milo r. townsend.
new brighton, jan. 20, ’4b.
dn. selwvn.-—the newspapers have
been again quoting a certain saying of
sydney smith’s to bishop selwyn, on
bidding him farewell on his departure
for new zealand; but no one tells the
bishop’s rejoinder to the witty but
irreverent canon of st. paul’s. the
story is told thus:—before the bishop
of new zealand departed, sydney
smith, in taking leave, affected to
impress upon his friend the dangers of
his mission. you will find,” he said,
“in preaching to cannibals, that their
attention, instead of being occupied by
the spirit, will be concentrated on the
jlesh for i am told that they never
breakfast without a cold missionary on
the sideboard. in shaking bands with
the new prelate as he was leaving the
house, the rev. wit added, good-bye.
we shall never meet again? but let u»
hope that you may thoroughly disagree
with the savage who eats you. in
justice to dr. selwyn. let his retort be
added:— ‘‘good-bye, mr. canon; you
at any rate, have enough to do with
roasting bishops at home.
the bearded poetugcese.— the
are one of the hairiest
races in europe. the southern sun
be whiskers youths of fifteen, and mous
taches so many ladies, (whose voice*
are roughened by snuff-taking,) that
the petticoat is often their only dis
tinction. don pedro, during the sieget
of oporto, took a vow never to suffer a
razor near his face, till he had exter
minated his usurping brother. the
result was a patriarchal beard, des
cending to his middle before the end of
the war. the constitutionalists of
portugal, out of regard for their liber
ator’s memory, have continued ever
since to wear enormous beards; and
you will see a little soldier, four feet
high strutting before his post, with a
harmless firelock over his shoulder, and
a beard fringing his chin, calculated
much more to frighten you. this ewl
had risen to such a pitch at the tres
sury, and what the clerks wrote was
often so atrociously blotted by the
sweeping of their beards, that the
mmister felt himself compelled to issue
suspending the guarantees
of every in the department.
thia documen* r* rjeft tlti j n ,propriety
of civil employ as using military <u*-
t inctioos, and condemned the contu
macioua to suspension from their em-
pl 3:r overload journey la
howtsr paine. —lf a man has a
right to he proud of any thing it is of
food ration, done as it ought to bo,
i vnad any knot wtsrest lurking at tho
bottom of it.