THE AMERICAN-NEW SLAVE LAW.
Mr. Editor, —The “Fugitive Slave
Bill,” which, when the last packet left,
had just passed the Senate of the United
States, and is probably by this time be- 1
come the law of the land throughout
the vast transatlantic Federation, is a
measure of such enormity, so atrocious
a violation of the plainest dictates of
right and justice, that in no country
where a free and honest Press exists
ought its adoption to be unmarked by
the strongest reprobation. This Bill
will make Slave States ol all the States, j
It recognizes and extends all the claims
over fugitives hitherto set up by the
Southern States, disposes of all doubt- j
ful points in favor of the pursuer and
against the fugitive, and supplies every
lack of legal power by which, in many
cases, the effect of wicked laws may
have been practically neutralized, I
How such a triumph to a demonical
principle has been obtained, is not yet i
apparent. On what grounds the sanc
tion of the House of Representatives
is so confidently anticipated, is still to
be explained. But if the vote of hu- j
inanity and truth can resound across j
the Atlantic in time to make Congress j
pause in its downward and damning
course —if it can be heard in time to
encourage the constitutional interposi- j
tion of the new President, by his veto, j
on this nefarious project—something
will have been done for the redemption!
of our common nature from a foul dis
grace, and the striped and starry ban
ner may wave the more proudly for
escaping a darker stain than any in
flicted by defeat, on land or sea.
The Bill proposes to enact, that
wherever a fugitive (his or her color
need not be black—thousands of slaves
are fair as Europeans;) is claimed in a
District Court, the affidavit of tiie pur-j
suer shall be taken as conclusive proof
that the runaway is his property. The 1
testimony of the alleged slave is not to
be taken as evidence at all. And the j
deposition of the pursuer is not to be
taken according to the legal forms of
the free State in which the man
hunter finds his victim, but according
to those of the Slave State from which
the alleged-runaway is said to have es
caped This is an allowance for sla
very to lord it over the Union. The in
stitutions of the Free States succumb
before those of the Slave States. The i
local laws and forms of the South are
made paramount. Truely the spirit Of
the Pilgrim fathers is tamed down in
their posterity. Let this doctrine
spread in Europe; let it be conceded
that a free soil does not make a free i
man, and there is no longer any refuge
from oppression. Independent States,
indeed! Why you New Englanders
will be nothing but the slave, and the
slave-catchers of the South. You will
be their mantraps; their
Republicans? Faugh! You wilt make
the word stink in European nostrils.
The.despotism of a claimant, conclu
sive evidence! The contrary deposi
tion not admissible “in any trial or
hearing under this act!” What should
we say of such a law if the disputed
properly were a silver spoon, and not
a living human being? What should
we say, were the property a dog? The
probable abuse is obvious. Thousands
of free men and women may, and will,
be kidnapped. The marvel seems how
anybody should be secure. Under the
present law, we read in the same
journal that details the progress of the
Bill, how the old oachtnan, at Wash
ington, of three-successive Presidents,
has hud his wife, 50 yearn old, his three
daughters, and three grandchildren, all
seized and carried off by a slave-trader
from Baltimore, to be sold to the
highest bidder. The old tnan had pur
chased his own freedom some years
ago; but that might not have availed
him under the new law. There is work
enough in him to he worth a Custom
house oath, and Judges in the District
Courts of the States will be found to
carry this law into effect. What an
infernal mockery of the forms of justice.
Such Judges, they, gay, wear no
horsehair wigs upon their heads; they
ought to wear hempen halters around
their necks.
Any person, according to this Bill,
aiding or abetting the escape, or inter
posing to prevent the arrest and recon
veyance, will be subject to a fine of 1,.
000 dollars, to six months' imprison
ment, and to a forfeiture of 1,000 dol
lars, by way of civil damagaa, to the
pursuer. Really the contriver* of then
THE NORTH STAR.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS, Editer tad Proprietor.
VOL. 111. NO. 45.
clauses ought to have framed a list ot
human feelings and Christian precepts,
with appropriate (according to their
ethics) penalties for each. Thor*
should be finerfor philanthropic words,
and prohibitory penalties on pity. Con
gress should carry out the principle:
£lO for bestowing a penny on a beg
gar; incarceration, with hard labor,
for administering soup to thealJ|rYlA&»<
i .■wwgWs mil MffMl UIUC-TailS,
for sympathy with a maimed slave.
There should he a tariff for tears,
when shed on account of negro suffer
ings. Surely this law never can be
observed. Therfe are manly hearts
and generous women in the States.
Houses of refuge will be found more
sacred than the most solemn temple.
The infamous penalties for human and
righteous deeds will he braved. We
shall see whether the South can put
down the eternal instincts of our moral
nature. Haynau, Austria has dene
with you; Virginia wants your services
in N«'W England.
Further, it is provided that if the
nan-hunter swears he fears a rescue,
he State, the free State, in which he
inds the alleged rnnaway, shall convey
lim safely across its border, by means
if its own governmental force; and
should a rescue be actually effected,
hen the said man-hunter shall be paid
he value of his human game from the
mblic Treasury, which shall repay it
lelf by levy on the particular State
Thus the chain is rivetted. The
i ee spectators of the outrage are not
lermitted even to be passive. Securi
ies are exacted by the South against
mblic opinion in the North. People
hall pay for looking on, while the
laver is baffled. An alleged slave
iberating himself, is a sight not to be
een with impunity. Property knows
to such laws as these; no has ever
:ontrived them, in its proudest cupidi- i
y. A land-owner is an angel compared
vith a slave-owner. Food monopolies
ire miracles of mercy compared with
fugitive Bills. And the people who
ilaim and enact these laws are our own
lesh and blood; Anglo-Saxons, whose
athers emigrated, some of them for
iberty of conscience. It is passing
trange. Thank heaven, we had sla-*
ery only in our Colonies. It never
mlluted the soil of this island. If it
tad, the abomination, in its blinding
ind degrading influences, might, such
s the power of circumstances, have
irevented the noblest of our historical
chievements, that of Emancipation,
ind entailed on us that moral blight
ind withering curse, which make us
brink and shudder though the broad
Atlantic rolls between us and the ioath
ome spectacle.
Sir, 1 make no appeal, on this sub
ect, to what is, after all, the one great
eality of political existence the
iglils of man. Nor not that grand
leciaration which prefaces the consli
ion of the United States, and records,
n blazing characters, the inconsistency
if their legislators. Nor do I rake up,
ir take—for they are too abundant to
teed raking (or them—the authenticat
:d tales of gross cruelty and outrage
vhich are the inevitable concomitants
>f slavery. 1 avoid also advertiug to
he unnatural horror of the fact, that
>ften the slave-owner works, sells,
acerates, or pursues, with more than
>loodhound ferocity, ht 9 own flesh and
flood, the profitable and marketable
ssue of his own enforced em races.
Hie slavery faction is past all these
:onsiderations* Nor is the American
mblic moved by them, so as to put
orth its energy to crush the system
rotn which they spring. I pass them
iy. But there is one thing for which
ill Americans care, and that is, Euro
man opinion. Now let America know
hat the old world hears with amaze
nent, with scorn, with contempt and
oathing, of such a law as Congress is
taid to be about to pass. There is no
jarty in Great Britain, or on the Con
inent, that withholds its reprobation.
Fhe authors and agents ol European
riHanies, in |the name of religion and
>rder, shrug their shoulders at it; and,
unid the tempest of hitred which beats
>n them whenever Press or voice is
free, hug themselves to think that there
are still blacker souls in the world,
and human devils more damned. The
recreants of liberty in Europe, the
cowards who fled the struggle, or the
Judases who destroyed their cause,
point to Republican Senate, succumb
ing under a faction of slavers, and
bless God they are not so false and
pusillanimous as those Americans.
Democracy hides its face at the story,
or changes its blushes for the glow of
burning indignation. Monarchy is
proud, and walks statelilr as in the
robes of innocence. Even West In
dian planters boast that they needed
nothing like this, in the days when
they were most reviled, and they stop
on with heads erect. The waves of
the Atlantic groan at you, Americans!
Its winds hist at you. The world's
opinion? You sink yourselves below
opinion. Nobody is asked what his
opinion is of the foulnesses which you
propose to protect by legislation. They
are not matters of opinion. We may
as well be asked our opinion of sordid
rape and brutal cruelty. Opinion is
for subjects on which doubt ia possible
and for which reprobation is not a moral
necessity of human nature.
A runaway slave is a man trying to
catch his manhood. He aeeka to be
what God made him. His claim is tc
property in hts own thews and sinews
Being a man, he will not confess tc
being a beast. The inalienable own
ership in himself overides all the stolen
property in him claimed by his master.
The rights which he aseeits are in theii
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALE MEN ARE BRETHREN.
nature indefeasible. His flight only
shows that he is not debased so low as
to repudiate the heaven-given charter
of his existence. No claims of colonies
to independence, or of nations to free
dom, are more sacred, and they are
less elementary, dhao those of the in
dividual man to his personal liberty.
If a single negro in Virginia be legili
mataiv tb»
then 19 Virginia itself, and the other
States too, legitimately the prosperity of
Great Britain. Our sympathies are ail
with the fugitive; and in the honse of
prayer, with our Bibles open, we should;
say, “God speed him.” Sordid souls,
indeed, must they be who, not being
themselves slaves, yet sympathise with
the slaver. The American Southerns
are lighting against universal feelings,
hopes, wishes, and principles. They
war with all that represents God upon
earth. No doubt their position is an
embarrassing one—beast on all sides
with difficulties and perils. The most
humane amongst them may hesitate to
say that they clearly see their way out
of it. Let them confess as much, and
the world will listen without inter
ruption. Let them devise plans, though
of long gradation, to emancipate their
brethren, and the world will approve.
Let them cry for help out of their
depths, and good men every where will
bestir themselves to aid. But there
seems nothing in them of this earnest
nesss and becoming humanity. They
boast and swagger, and show them
selves encroaching. This same Fugi
tive Bill is an act of aggression. It in
sults the independence of the confed
erated Slates, as well as the moral
sense of the world*. Its promoters merit
such rebuke as Barclay’s drayrnen ad
ministered to Haynau. What, is he
more black, even in his foulest deeds,
than many of the slave-hunters have
shown themselve? And this in Ameri
ca, too; that America which the good
in England have so loved and praised.
O, shame, shame! Let the Delegates
to the Peace Congress go home, and
try to establish an arbitration between
the enactments of Congress and the
law’s of God. There is sore need of
peace-making and harmonizing.—Lon
don Dispatch.
ANTI-BLAVERY MEETING IN NEW
CASTLE.
On Thursday evening, a public meet
ing was held in Salem-chapel, Hood
street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in pro
motion of the the consumption of free
labor in preference to slave-labor
products. The attendance was numer
ous.
On the motion of Mathew Foster,
Esq., seconded by Mr. Challoner, the
Rev. J. C. Brouce was called upon to
preside, and, on taking the chair, brief
ly adressed the meeting, congratulating
the friends of the slave ou the recent
intelligence from the United States,
that the scale was turning, and the
Free States acquiring a preponderence.
(Applause.)
The Rev. H. H. Garnet, who was
warmly received by the meeting, spoke
at considerable length, necessarily em
bracing much of the. same matter
which entered into his Gateshead ad
dress. He referred, however, to an
interesting manner, to the news just
received from the United States. The
struggle, he said, which had long been
in progress beyond the Atlantic, had
terminated for a season. Since
March last, a conflict had been waged,
which, for fiercene.-s and persever
ance, was unprecedented in the histo
ry of the Republic. The combatants
on the one side demanded that the
bloodstained banner of Slavery should
wave over every inch of soil in the
Union, from the banks of the Potomac
to the fartherest verge of California.
This pretension was resisted by the
other party; and the result was the ad
mission of New Mexico into the Union
with the Wilmot proviso, leaving th**
door open to Slavery; while California
came into the confederation on her
own terms, utterly repudiating com
pulsory, involuntary labor. (Applause
The modern (and, as many learned
men contended, the ancient) land of
Ophir, people from all quarters of the
world, had unfurled on the lofty peaks
which teemed to guard the Pacific the
flag of freedom; and its folds were
proudly reflected io the deep blue wave
of the free and chainless sea. (Cheers.)
But if this glad intelligence filled his
mind with joy and exultution, his hap
piness was chastened by the knowledge
that the far-famed Fugitive Slave Bill
bad passed both Houses of Congress,
and was now the law of the United
States. It was often asserted, by the
apologists of American Slavery, that
the negroes were kindly treated, and
content with their condition; but if so,
why were there 40,000 fugitive slaves
in Canada, and 50,000 (we understood
Mr. Garnet to say) in the Free States
of the Union? Now, the slaveholders
had long been anxious to obtain a law
which should enable them more readily
to drag back the fugitive to slavery.
The Supreme Court of the Republic,
against whose judgment there was no
appeal, had decided that the slavehold
er, wherever he found his slave, might
seize and repossess him. But this was
not sufficient. Mr. Henry Clay, the
roost popular, and, at the same time,
the most wicked man in the U. Slates
—a slaveholder and woman-whipper
—one of the most cruel men that had
ever existed, from the day« of H«rod
to those of Haynau (laughter and ap
plause) Mr. Clay maintained the
doctrine that wbat the law declared to
be property was property; and the
whole course of legislation, for 950
ROCHESTER, N, T., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 81, 1850.
.4*
years, had held the slave, ha said, try
be property. The bill .which, founded
upon this assumption, hehatf ff'f «»r
-ried, enacted that if any
made oath that go and so, living at this
or that place, wherever it migMfhe,
was his slave, the officers of tte yoited
States were hound to delivel v the
aia»aWHa>"iK'<i arefroitfer was
der no obligation to make the claim in
person. He could send his oath and
his agent—and that was enough. The
persoa seized might demand a juryi
when he was carried back—a jwfy o<
slaveholders! A jury of wotvev to try
the lamb! Now, to understand the true
character of this law, the meeting
should be aware that there were places
in the United States where the slave
was as safe as if he were in Newcastle.
To meet this fact there was a clause
providing that if any person interfered
between the agent of the slaveholder
and the negro whom he claimed, and
the latter should in consequence es
cape, the person so interfering must
pay the value of the fugitive; or if the
escape should occur in a mob, and no
individual could be made responsible,
then then the cost must be made good
by the Stale in which the rescue took
place. Was ever such an outrage
committed until now, in the name o!
law or justice, since the days of the in
famous Jefferies? All over the Union
there were negroes living—fugitive
slaves. Two thirds of his own congre
gation in Geneva were escaped ne
groes. His own wife and children
might be seized under this bill, and
hurried into the South. It was a mea
sure to scatter the seeds of civil war
throughout the Union, and it would not
surprise him were it to provoke a
dreadful conflict. He was a man of
peace—but if the agent of the slave
holder were to enter his house, and lay
hands upon his wife and child, could
human na’ure tamely suffer them to be
torn away to slavery! (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Garnet proceeded to state that it
slaves sold well in America, you might
be sure that cotton was high in Liver
pool, and virce veca. Britain, in fact,
was the main prop and stay of Slavery;
and Slavery could best be struck down
by the withrawal of British custom. He
bsw no prospect of the abolition of
American Si very, save In tir/render
ing of it unprofitable, or in arf uprising
of human naUre against the outrage.
(Hear, hear.)
The Rev. Dr. Pennington, also a
fugitive slave, referred to the slave
chase at Washington, narrated in an
other column, and said, that if such
Beenes occurred even on the soil of
slavery, what might be expected in the
Free States under the new bill? It
was a bill which, he deliberately de
clared, could not be enforced. The
law would prove a nullity. Dr. Pen
nington exhorted the meeting to pur
chase, wherever they had the choice,
free in preference to slave-labor pro
duce. He rejoiced to know that such
a feeling was spreading in Great Bri
tain, and that in Lancashire the manu
facturers were anxiously looking to
new fields for the supply of cotton.
A collection having been made,
thanks were voted by acclamation, on
the motion of the Rev. T. Pottinger,
to I)r. Pennington and Mr. Garnet;
and with a vote of thinks to the Chair
man the proceedings closed.
It must have struck 6very reflecting
mind in the meeting, that American
Slavery is sufficiently condemned by
the fact that it insolently reduces to
the level of the brutes, men like Mr.
Garnet, and Dr. Pennington, who may
take their stand by the side of the
proudest Saxon on either side of the
Atlantic.— Gateshead Observer.
THE SLAVEHOLDERS’LAST MOVE.
The Senate of the United States has
just adopted a measure which gives a
new and deeper interest to the great
controversy respecting American Sla
very. If the measure in question shall
receive the sanction ofthe other branch
of the Legislature, a state of tnings
will speedily arise in which great num
bers of upright and faithful citizens
will find themselves called upon to
choose whether they will obey the law
of inan or the law of God. It has been
long contended by some of the oppo
nents of Slavery, that the free States
are sharers in the guilt of those with
whom they are federally united, inas
much as the Constitution binds them to
aid in restoring fugitive slaves to their
masters. The most common answer to
this, we believe, has been, that the
constitutional provisions respecting the
surrender of fugitive slaves were in a
great measure neutralized, and made a
dead-letter, by the habits and feelings
of northern citizens; and that it would
be unwise and unpatriotic to jeopardise
the continuance of the Union, and to
disturb the very foundations of the
Government, in order to get rid of an
enactment which was so much worse
in appearance than in reality. The
species of compromise, however, is
about to be blown to the winds, by the
adoption of a new and stringent law,
which will require from the authorities
ofthe Northern States as much activity
and vigilaace in barring up all the cus
tomary 'avenues of escape from bond
age, as if they were the paid police of
their southern neighbors. Nor is this
all. The new law wjll not only de
mand that the energy of the North be
employed in seizing and sending back
fugitive* to the prison and the lash,
but will place the life and liberty of ev
ery fre* ptrson of color at tbe mercy of
any scoundrel who, upon oath, may
claim him as his property. The alfi
davit being duly made, the authorities
ar* to give effect to the law, without
listening to a single syllable which the
fugitive*, or supposed fugitive, can say
in bis own defence. The evidence of
the unhappy person placed in this cruel
predicament, is prohibited,as something
S unfit for the ear of justice.
iha.nUwani fimiher
carrytng off his victim he has
reason to dread of rescue, the authori
ties are to take upoa themselves the
task of conveying the snpoosed slave
to his place of punishment; and if a
rescue does take place, the people of
the State in which it happens are to
compensate the slave-owner.
When we are told that an Act like
this has passed the Senate of th*> United
States in this present year 1850, we
scarcely know how to express our
amazement. There is in it a shame
less defiance of the opinion of the civ
ilized world, which an assembly inclu
ding the moat eminent statesmen of
America might have been expected to
avoid as impolitic, even if they did no*
think it immoral. It is, however, only
a new proof that the statesmanship of
America is of a very unscrupulous
character. Its system of courting and
managing the popular passions, is an
elaborate political Jesuitism, according
to which a great end, felt to be desira
ble, is held to justify any means by
which it can be attained. There was
mu«.h in the recent proceedings relative
to the new settlements, calculat'd to
alienate the Slave-holding interests.
Now they are to be propitiated. For
reasons in which it is to be feared tf
genuine concern for human rights had
little share, the extension of Slavery
was powerfully resisted; but now the
friendship of the offended slaveholders
is to be purchased back by a legislative
guarantee that the Slavery which al
ready exists shall be made as perma
nent as the Constitution.
It is also possible,—for of men who
do such things no suspicion can be too
unworthy,—that this new movement is
only a sham concession. The law may
be brought forward in the belief that
the Northern States will not execute it,
and that those of the South may be ap
peased by finding the Legislature ready
to do for them all that is in its power.
But the intention of the authors of such
a law is a raster of very little conse
quence. In any case of the attempt to
briog it into play, will be made both by
real and pretended owners ot runaway,
slaves; and the applications of such
parties will infallibly give rise to a se
ries of contests between Law and Con
science, by which for a time society
may be exposed to serious disorders.
The ultimate result, however, can be
nothing else than a great triumph ot
freedom. YVe are, indeed, greatly
mistaken, if this new and odious con
cession to the Slave power does not
give a vast and decisive impulse to the
Abolitionist agitation.
The Legislature of the United States,
in adopting so monstrous a measure,
will place law in direct antagonism
with some of the noblest and strongest
feelings of human nature. The very
existence of a great social wrong like
Slavery does, indeed, involve such an
tagonism; but in the strife the human
heart is perpetually gaining upon and
subduing the evil with which it is at
war. The props and defences of sla
very are continually giving way before
the moral pressure which hears against
them, and every attempt to put new le
gal supports under the tottering fabric
only extends the surface against which
the tide of opinion beats with an ever
growing force. This hew pro-slavery
law must stimulate into active hostility
many opponents of slavery who, at
present, content themselves with a
great protest against it. The bulk of
mankind care little tor the refinements
of reasoning. Many of the best citi
zens of the Northern States are in no
way troubled by clauses in the Consti
tution which,however bad in themselves
are nullified by custom. But let one
of these men, who has never taken part
in anti-slavery dem nstration, be call
ed upon to aid personally in forcing
back some trembling refugee to his
chains and stripes from which he has
escaped, and what will be the conse
quence? Hundreds and hundreds, we
can have no doubt whatever, will be
ready to declare that no power on earth
shall force them to become sharers in
such iniquity. The case is one iu
which Law will compel men to ask bn
what right or authority it commands
obedience; and when it can plead noth
ing but the will of Congress against
the clear and imperative voice of con
science, the most determined adherents
of order and peace may be driven into
resistance. It is true that the majority
may still be disposed to take the easi
est path, and may assume that which is
legal most necessarily be right, but the
men whose moral force of character
give them influence' over others, will
be those to whom such acquiescence
must necessarily appear degradation.
They will resist the new Slavery,
ordinance as a violation of the highest
law by which human beings are bound;
and whatever discussion or agitation
follows from such resistance, must
spread the opposition by awakening in
other minds those universal sentiments
of justice which no force of custom can
extinguish in the human breast. Lon
i don Inquirer.
I like the storv of the blacksmith,
who was requested to bring a suit for
slander. He said he could go into
his shop and hammer out a better char-
F acter in six months than all the courts
in Christendom could give him.—*SW.
Piftfer.
TERMS— S 2 p«r llu UrarieMr Mtutt.
{Frost thaßdfctt QmmM Cfc-oaMs.]
I PROGRESS OF SLATE ABOLITION.
I Dear Sir: —An erroneous account
haring lately appeared in some of the
American papers, of tbe assault on
Mr. Douglass, I hand you a true state
ment from bis own pen. as published iu
jfc» IUUr ewr t WT nicn He is propri
etor and editor
My readers will hare observed in
the North Star of last week an account
of a most cowardly assault made upon
me in the Battery at New York. Like
most other statements which emanate
from the American press, this one (tho’
partly true) is false in several particu
lars. It is not true that I walked down
Broadway with two white females rest
ing on my arm, in the case alluded to,
although I insist upon the right to do
so. It is not true that the ladies in
company with me placed themselves
under the care of the gentleman (ruff
ian?) who assaulted me, nor of any of
tee villanous party, nor of anybody
else. It is not true that I sneered at or
spoke to the loafing assailants. The
facts briefly are these: Myself and
friends were going to Philadelphia, and
supposing that the ‘John Potter’ de
parted from New York at 12 o’clock,
we rode down a quarter before 12, but
found on our arrival that we had been
mistaken; the time of starting being
half past one o’clock. The interval,
therefore, we passed in the Battery.—
When about to leave for the steamer,
five or six men surrounded us, assail
ing us with all sorts of coarse and
filthy language, and two of them finally
struck the ladies on the head, while
another attacked me. I warded off the
blows with my umbrella, and the cow
ardly creatures left without doing any
personal harm. Thinking we should
not be disturbed by them again, we
walked slowly toward the steamer; one
of the mob observing that I was off my
guard, ran up behind me, and before I
could put myself in a position to ward
off the assassin’s blow, I was struck in
the face. These are the whole facta
of the case. I never was more calm
or self-possessed than when under this
beastly assault. I felt no indignation
towards the poor miserable wretches
who committed the outrage. They
were but executing upon me the behests
of the pro-slavery church and c ergy
of the land; doing the dirty work of
the men that despise them, and who
have no more respect for them in re
ality than they have for me. I shall
have more to say on my visit to New
York and Philadelphia next week.—
F. D.”
It is no wonder that the slaveholders
and their allies hate Mr. Douglass for
having so powerfully exposed the ini
quity of a system under which he so
long suffered. When my friend w«i
in Belfast, I lent a copy of his narra
tive to a mutual friendot ours. “Did
you read it all, Doctor,” said I. He
replied, I think I have it all by heart,
and in my opinion be is the stone in the
sling destined by God to overthrow the
Goliah of slavery.”
Thu good cause is progressing—the
Congress can’t go on without debating
the question. Recollect how it retarded
for a long time the election of a speaker
in the House of Representatives; yet
a few years ago no anti-slavery petition
would be read in either house.
In last month I had an interview
with David Turnbull, Esq., one of the
judges of the mixed courts in Jamaica.
He is on sick leave, his health having
suffered much from residence in foreign
climates. He is the editor of an inter
esting work, entitled Movement for
the enforc3ment of the slave-trade
treaties,” for gratuitous distribution,
the last and most important of which
was negotiated by the Lord Lieutenant
of Ireland, Earl Clarendon, when am
bassador at the Court of Spain; and
which treaty was based on the sugges
tions conveyed to the foreign office by
Mr. Turnbull, when British Consul at
Cuba, the duties of which office he dis
charged so faithfully to the poor ne
groes, illegally held in bondage, that his
life was endangered, and he had to
sleep on board a British ship of war in
the harbor of Cuba. Mr. Turnbull
informed me that he lately met Mr.
Rives in London, the American Minis
ter at Paris, who has long represented
Virginia in the Senate of the United
States, and tbe owner of extensive
tracts of land in Virginia, with a pro
portionate number of slaves. He ex
pressed his readiness to promote man
umission and removal of large numbers
of them, as well as those of some
twenty of his neighbors, as soon as he
is made aware that the necessary ar
rangements were completed for their
transit to tbe West Indies, and for their
reception there; and I am happy to
inform you that Mr. Turnbull has un
dertaken, I believe, the pleasing duty
of having these poor slaves taken to
Jamaica, where' laborers are required,
and where they will be no looger sub
ject to the lash of the task-master, but
be paid for their labor. Mr. Law
reuce, the American Ambassador to
St. James, told Mr. Turnbull that the
system of slavery is now so unprofita
ble and burdensome in six of the fif
teen slave States of the Union, namely,
Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky, North
Carolina, Tennessee, and Missouri,
that the/ may hope tbe time will soon
come when slavery will be abolished in
those States. Mr. Rives entirely con
firmed the statement: of his colleague,
Mr. Lawrence. Is not this cheering
news, Mr. Editor? Weil may the
friend* of human freedom praise God
and taka couraga; let them persevere
in a righteous agitation until slavery is
abolished throughout the world.
WHOLE NO. 148.
L Turnbull info no* me th«;, the
I House of Assembly in Jamaica eon
f Silts of foftVaAlkVlln an
J 'WTCB mmvouOvi Jj ten Ol
whom are colored, aad two black gen
tiemen, and it though that the next
speaker will be a colored man. What
will the sawey Repnblici*. of America
think of this?—the contemptible aris
tocracy of the skit? V; SP*Y-,t-
The article relative It) Mr. Dougina
was copied into the Belfast journals
£em the American papers; therefore
it is necesaauy that the public should
he rightly informed of the nature of the
tumult committed.
I remain, dear sir,
Truly yours,
James st*nfieli>.
Belfast. Sept. 26.
ANTI-SLAVERY DEMONSTRATION.
A public anti-slavery meeting was
held in Smyrna Chapel, on Monday
evening (art. The Rev. John Parker
presided. Long before the time ap
pointed for the services of tho evening,
the chapel was crowded to excess; and
as it was thought desirable that none
who had come interested in the pros
perity of the movement should be die
admittance ftrto Smyrna, fir a few
minutes that chapel was also crowded.
When the Rev. Dr. Pennington and
the Rev. Henry Highland Garnet, gen
tlemen of color, and once slaves, but
now ministers of the gospel, the former
in the city of New York, and.the latter
at Geneva, Suae of New Yeek, entered
the chapel, the immense assembly rose
and in the most welcome end en huei
astic manner greeted them as brethren.
It was then agreed that they ahnuld
each address both meetings. The Rev.
James Muir presided over the meeting
m Union Chapel. The addresses of
the gentlemen were eloquent, persua
sive and thrilling, and were received
with expressions of the highest appro
bation. Many of their statements filled
the audience with horror, and drew
from them the deepest sympathy..—
They showed that the history of slavery
on the cotton fields of America, is the
very epitome of human misery. The
slaves are treated like beasts of bur
den—their family ties are disregarded
—they are constantly worked under the
whip—even the women being flogged
unmercifully when they fail in accom
plishing their appointed task. Should
they attempt to escape, they are hunted
with bloodhounds, and not unfrequentiy
shot down like wild beasts. The aver
age life of a slave on a cotton planta
tion is estimated not to exceed seven
years. They exhibited American sla
very as they had seen and felt it; they
showed its debasing character, injus
tice and impolicy, even in a temporal
light; the oppression, cruelty, and
wretchedness of the fugitive slave law,
lately passed by both houses of Con
gress, and which is now the law in op-
eration in that country. They also
pointed out the means by which the
system may be entirely suppressed, viz.
by using free labor produce, and re
fusing to touch or taste any article pro
duced or manufactured by slaves. In
the United States, Brazil, and Spanish
colonies, there are seven millions of
slaves who produce, cotton, sugar, rice,
tobacco and coffee, which articles are
consumed in large quantities by the
British nation. They give the slave
holder their money or manufactures in
exchange for the products of the blood
stained fields, and thus furnish the
means for continuing the atrocious sys
tem. The remedy is apparent—-abstain
from their produce and slavery must
cease. A whiff of a slave-driver was
shown, which has often been wet with
the blood of the oppressed slave. The
whip was nine feet in length, a fearful
weapon to be applied in the punish
ment of a human being. Manacles for
the legs and neck, which had been
manufactured in Birmingham,were also
shown, and produced sensations of the
most intense nature, and loud cries of
"shame, shame." Both meetings were
most enthusiastic. The Rev. James
Pringle, from Newcastle, Revds. S.
Wutkinson and John Morris, with Mr.
Wakinshaw, took a part in the pro
ceedings of the evening. A vote of
thanks was given to the rev. strangers
in the same expressive manner as they
had ne%n greeted when they entered
the meeting. A collection was taken
for aiding the good work commenced;
it was liberal, and showed the intense
feeling of the meeting. After prayer,
by the Rev. presiding gentlemen, the
meeting separated.
On Wednesday morning at 11, a
most respectable meeting was held in
Union Chapel, for forming a Ladies’
Anti-Slavery Association, for promoting
the sale of free labor produce. The
Association was formed with all its
office-bearers, and a considerable num
ber of ladies have become members.
There is something about these move
ments that leads us to contemplate the
day as not far distant when slavery
shall be no more. The Rev. Dr. Pen
nington preached last Sabbath evening
in Dundas-street chapel, and in the
morning in Smyrna chapel. The Rev.
H. H. Garnet preached in the morning
in Maling’s Rig chapel, and in the eve
ning in Union chapel. The Rev. Dr.
Pennington addressed the children of
St. George’s Sabbath-school in the af
ternoon.— Sunderland Herald, Oct. 4.
The Fugitive Slave Excitement.
—There was a large meeting of the
opponents of the Fugitive Slave law in
Worcester, on Friday evening. A fu
gitive just arrived gave an account of
his escape from bondage. One of the
resolutions passed reads as follows:
That as God is our helper, we will
uot suffer any person charged with be
ing a fugitive from labor to be taken
from among us, and to this resolve, we
pledge our lives, our fortunes, and our
sacred honor.”
A Committee of Vigilance of forty
persons was appointed to keep a look
out for the appearance of alave-catch
ers, who are to be requested, as soon
as known, to leave the city forthwith.
—JY. Englander.
Slaves among the Mormons.—A
California correspondent of the Boston
Traveller says:—
It may not be generally known that
quite a large number of slaves are now
to be found among the Mormons of Salt
Lake, introduced ioto that community
by southerners, who have connected
i themselves with these people from time
to time*
Rochester Worth Star Fair.
The Ladies of Rochester, desiroas of emu
lating the noble example set them by their
sisters of New York and Philadelphia in their
efforts to sustain the above named paper, have
formed an Association, for the purpose of
bolding a Fair during Christmas week, in aid
of “the North Star.”
To those acquainted with the character of
this jpaper, it is needless to speak of its merits,
or of the untiring zeal, and sincere devotion
of its Editor. Eminently qualified as Frederick
Douglass is to promote the elevation of his
oppressed and despised people at the North,
he is also equally qualified to sympathize with
our brothers and sisters, who are still in
chains and slavery at the South —to tell of
their wrougs, to vindicate their rights, and (by
the blessing of God) to “hasten the day of
freedom to the three millions of our enslaved
fellow countrymen.’’
We, therefore, regard “the North Star”
as one of the most effective anti-slavery in
strumentalities now in the field, and in this
night of darkness and gloom, we look to it
as the beacon to guide us “until the day
dawn’’ and unclouded sunshine bursts upon
us.
We call upon all true friends of the alav
to give us their zealous co-operation on the
present occasion.
Friends of humanity! shall we call upon
you in vain! A cruel and inhuman law is
banishing hundreds of OUt JWiplo ifbto j
tact land, and bringing ruin and desolation
upon many once happy families.
Christian friends of Rochester, we cell up
on you in the name of all you hold dear and
sacred, to extend your kind aid and sympathy
to the daughters of an outraged and suffering
people.
We earnestly invite the co-operation of
benevolent friends throughout the countty.
We appeal with confidence to our English
friends for aid on the present occasion.
Donations and contributions will be grate
fully received by Mrs. Titus, 1 Division at.,
Mrs. Panl, 50 Exchange st., Mrs. Boyd, 111&
Main si., or by any member of the Associa
tion, and at the North Star Office, Rochester.
R. I. Anti-Slavery Society—Annual
Meeting.
The Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the
Rhode Island Anti-Slavery Society will be
held in Mechanic’s Hall, in Providence, on
Wednesday and Thursday Nov. 13th and
14th, commencing at 10 o’clock a. m.
Distinguished advocotes of emancipation,
from other States, have been invited to be with
us, and it is expected that their presence on
this occasion, will add to the interest of our
meetings.
What, now, we ask, is an earnest and
faithful response from the people of our own
State, who profess abhorrence of the constant
ly increasing evils of American slavery—evils
that are every day developing themselves, in
some new phase, in the moral, social and
political communities in which they move,
and for whose existence no man nor woman
in our State may deny their proper share ol
responsibility. It is not a time when we may
properly shrink from the duty our reason
point* to, and when our log-cherished faith
makes binding upon us. The hounds of the
slave gang are upon the track of the fugitive,
armed with the weapons of law, and eager
for those tiiumphs which only fiends can shout
over—the triumphs of slavery, and its curses
and its chains, over the liberty which makes
a boon worthy of thanksgiving, and which
some few of the dark sons of Africa have
been so fortunate as to purchase for them
selves and their wives and children. If we
have hearts, and remember the professions
we have made, we shall not fail to come to
gether on this occasion, and ulte in noble and
earnest language, our detestation ot an un
righteous law, and our determination to re
member, in the hour of his trial, the haunted
fugitive from the South’s dank prison house,
as well as those who still clank the heavy
and galling chains of American servitude.
in behalt of the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery
Society.
JOHN BROWN, Pres.
Amakancy Paine, Sec'y.
Anil-Slavery Lectures.
On Sunday evening, 20th inst», an immense
concourse of our citizens was convened in the
City Hall, to listen to Mr. Hathaway of IJtica
N. Y., and Frederick Douglass, in relation to
the case of W. L. Chaplin, a citizen of this
State incarcerated in Montgomery jail Mary
land; and also to review the clauses of the Fu
gitive Slave Bill. -Mr. Hathaway had visited
Mr. Chaplin in the prison house at Washing
ton and had beheld- the sufferings, and heaid
related the circumstances attending the arrest
of that noble man, from his own mouth.
Mr. Chaplin did not abduct the persons
said to be the slaves of Messrs. '1 oombs and
Stevens. He met them by accident, and
merely extended to them an act of courtesy,
such as he would have extended to any man.
Mr. Chaplin did not know however, that those
men were armed or, lielieving as he does in
the sinfulness of all war, he would not have
allowed them to ride in his carriage until they
had thrown away their arms. Mr. Hatha
way's appeal for sympathy and assistance to
rescue Mr. Chaplin from the prison house of
bondage, was most eloquent and impassioned.
Frederick Douglass succeeded Mr. Hatha
way and expatiated upon Mr. Chaplin’s char
acter as a man and a Christian, liis address
was characterized by his usual fervid earnest
ness and clear, searching analysis. His ap
peal in favor of Mr. Chaplin was one of the
most powerful and eloquent; and enchained
the whole audience till nearly 10 o’clock p. m.
A collection of nearly nineiy dollars was
taken up for the Chaplin liberation fund.—
Christian Citizen.
Tasking tux Ai.miohty,—We have late
ly seen many cutting remarks in the public
journals respecting the Hon. Daniel Web
ster, but the following “good one,*' told by
the Dover Telegraph, beats them all:
‘•We had the benefit of country preaching
last Sabbath. As uauat in the forenoon ser
vices, our worthy divine devoted a portion of
hia prefactory prayei to an invocation of mer
cy upon the national councils, and duly re
membering tue spirit of the departed Presi
dent and our present worthy incumbent, he
commenced upon the Cabinet, exclaiming
with great ferver, ‘O Lord thy to bless
D.niel Webster."
Gkokol Thompson Expslted. —There are
not many Abolitionists, probably, whether
young or old, of long standing, or of
recent conversion who will hear without a
quickened pulae that George Thompson was
to fj’om Liverpool by the steamer of the
19th instant for Boston. The same warm
hearted welcome from Abolitionists awaits
him that he received fifteen yearn ago, but the
world at latge, we have no doubt, will find a
difference between George Thompson the
Anti-Slavery lecturer, and George r l hompson
a distinguished Member of the British Parlia
ment.—A. S. Standard.
Bj* The Daily Advertiser of Saturday an
nouocee that Mr. Joskph Curtis, late joint
proprietor of the Milwaukee Wisconsin, has
purchased an interest in the Advertiser estab
lishment, and will hereafter lake charge of its
busings* concerns. Mr Curtis was, some
years since, a proprietor of the same newspa
per, and is favorably known to many of our
citizens.— Democrat.
Hsyti. —Dispatches from Port au Prince
indicate a war of extermination between the
Haytiens and Dominicans. The armistice
between Soulouqe and the Dominicans was to
expire on the 3d, and Solouque was collecting
an army to renew the war, which is to com
mence after one month’s notice fiom the ex
piration of the armistice. Chrishan (itizen
The Path-Finder says that, “the Bee
seems to aspire to the distinction of being the
special advocate and defender of the odious
plwdhwnd Lite,
e Nortf) Star.
ROCHESTER, OCTOBER 31, 1850.
The third year of “the North Star” is
di awing to a close. Those of our friends who
have not yet paid their subscriptions for the
year 1850, are respectfully requested to for
ward them to “the North Star Office,” as
soon as possible. Our tetma specify that “pay
must be made invariably io advance.”
In the Editor’s letter, in the last number of
the North Star, for impressible, read im
pressible; for quite, read quiet; for land-storms
read loud storms.
Io Letter No. 7, by J. G., io the paragraph
relating to Hemy Clay, for presence, read
prescience.
Since the enactment of the Fugitive Slave
Bill, we have received numeious complaints
from our subscribers, that no “North Star”
teaches them. We have not heard of any
new law being framed for the capture of anti
slavery newspapers or we should be disposed
to believe that, in many places, the post office
MitbuitMi Uiua rigidly iMolved to enfoice
it. We beg to inform our friends that the
strictest attention is paid in our Office to the
mailing of the papers. The fault rests else
where.
“Tar Baltimore Olio and Musical Ga
zette” —Published by \V. C- Peters, 202 Balti
more 3t., Baltimore.
We have been favored with nine or ten
numbers of this tasteful, and well arranged
periodical, and we can therefore, speak with
confidence of its (continuous merits. Each
number of the ’Olio” contains six pages of
closely printed music, arranged for the piano
foite, guitar, flute, and violin. The selections
consist, for the most part, of elegant polkas,
waltzes and songs, and in addition to these,
the publisher presents to his readers general
musical intelligence, together with interesting
sketches from the lives of the old masters.
The terms of subscription for this little mu
sical album, are only one dollar and a half
per annum, we commend it with pleasure to
the attention of our music loving readers.
(IT Mr. Hall, a respectable colored me
chanic of this city, wishes to employ a colored
boy, sixteen or eighteen years old, of steady
and industrious habits, as an apprentice to the
wagon making business. If any of our
friends know of any one that would like to
obtain such a situation, they are requested to
communicate the fact (if by mail, post paid)
to this office.
We think the moral and intellectual as
well as pecuniary elevation of this class of
our citizens, depend very much on their leav
ing their present menial occupations, and
devoting themselves to the employments of
agriculture and the mechanic arts. Mr. Hall
has had to contend with all those difficulties
which are always thrown in the way of people
of his color, but by persevering industry, has
attained a respectable position and he now
shows a commendable zeal in endeavoring to
assist others of his oppressed race to tollow
his ooble example.— h. c.
October, ibe melancholy month, is fast
•tripping the forests ot their foliage; and the
variegated leaves of Autumn whisper to us
its sadness, as they fall from the trees they
have so lately crowned with its waning glory.
The winds have a chilling breath, and pass
us on their swift errands with a dreary moan,
unlike the pleasing monotones of their sum
mer voices. The aun goes not down, as was
his wont, “trailing clouds of glory” after him;
but sinks, veiled in vapors of most dismal
seeming.
So fadeth Autumn; and the frost-king, that
both gives and robs us of its splendors, will
soon commence his icy reign. His scepter
has passed when the gentle flowers lifted
themselves in beauty—and their forms are
bowed in slumber: it is waving above the
rivulets that have sung the song in (he ear of
summer, aod soon the running waters shall be
fettered and their melody unheard. But each
changing season brings with it its delights
and blesaings. Winter, crowned with snows
and hearing his icy spear, hath yet a warm
heart under his aictic jacket. His rude visits
are charities in disguise; and, save the suffer
ing consequent upon improvidence, or the
chilling poverty which presses soTely upon
eaith’s less favored children. Ins rough grasp
hath as much ftiendship in it as the holiday
smile of Spring. So move the seasons, in
their changing but changeless circles. And
thus—for outward nature is but the external
shadowings of the internal and spiritual-man’s
spirit moves; circling spirally upward, it tends
heavenward toward the stars and Him who
fashions the eternal spheres.
Progress is the great universal law, and
Barth and man, ever since their creation, have
been subjects of this law. True, there have
been periods when the short-sighted wisdom
if men has led them to suppose that a day of
retrogression had dawned upon the world.
The dark ages, as we term them, were dark
mough, (and so is this age, fur that matter,)
>ut back of them there shone a light which
hrew its shaft of flame above and beyond
hem far into the foreground of time. This
ight was Truth. It yet lives and burns.
The words which were things, undying
>rinciplea, whose spirit made them immortal
—utteied nearly two thousand years ago by
>ne who was himself the personification of
rath, fell not from those meek lips in vain,
rhey weie not idle dreama, or fallacies of a
lisoidered brain.- They have wandered ever
tince, up and down in the world—angel viai
ants when we knew them nut, seeking en
,ranee into the hearts of men. They have
men treated with almost as little deference as
»as their author. States have paid them a
ip service; priests have garnished their altars
with a gilded name, while they have sent to
the rack or the stake those whose lives up
held the gospel of man’* regeneration.
These plain ttuths.are revealing themselves
o the masses —the common people, whose
mligbtened minds are beginning to unmake
kings and priesthood. They are entering iu
at the open doors of men’s spirits; and teach
ing, in all <heir sublimity, those doctrines of
levere simplicity which came from the lips of
fetus of Nazareth.
Courage! then, all ye who labor for the
:ause of Truth. Courage! ye whose faith in
nan’s redemption is undying, sad who look
for his regeneration with the eye of propheey.
rho’ feeble, as yet, may be the ray that
heralds iu breaking, courage! for the morii
ng dawns.—a.
J
Letter the Editor.
The Fugitive Slavc~BiU and the Writ of
Habeas Corpus New York Express.
I have just read ike opinion of ibe Attorney
General of the United States, which denies
that the Fugitive Slave Bill” suspends the
privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, and
that this abominable and hell-black
enactment is in perfect accordance with the
Constitution of the United States. This
opinion appears to havs been given at the
request of the President, before he signed the
bill; and its publication is the first intimation
which the public have had that Mr. Fillmore
ever permitted himself to indulge a scruple
oo the subject of giving hie sanction to the
bill in question. The avidity with which this
opinion of a slaveholding Attorney Genera!
has been seized upon by a portion of the
Northern press, is significant. It is demon
strative as proofs of holy writ that they begin
to feel the rebound of their own devil-directed
blows; that they have overshot themselves;
that the thunder cloud which they raised over
the oppressed, is about to discharge its bolts
upon the oppressor. This learned opinion is
published to shield the recreant head of our
doughface President, and to allay the storm
.k.ft IIurMWM Um stlip wf State It IS
thought that arguments which could convince
the Northern President, ought to satisfy the
Northern people a slight mistake, 1 appre
hend. The judgment of the President is not
the judgment of the people. Mr. Crittenden
had but one objection to remove from the
plastic mind of Millard Fillmore. His diffi
culties are greater when he undeiiakes to
convince the public mind. The former can
be iufluenced by mere legal technicalities and
musty judicial precedents; but the latter
mounts above such contemptible barrien, and
demands justice in the light of common
sense and the liberty of this the nineteenth
century. The law is against justice, agtinst
humanity. It is cruel, monstrous and iifet
nal; and the Northern mind revolts at it, and
would do so though every line had btei.
copied, word for word, from the Constitutivn.
It is of no avail for Mr. Attorney General, or
Mr. Any-body-else to tell the people that it ts
constitutional. Their own conscience airl
common sense tell them that the law it
wrong, and that it ought not to be obeyed,
and they will not obey it. 1 arp no lawyer,
and have not the ability, if I had the disposi
tion, to examine this letter of our kidnapping
Attorney in the light of the law hut I know
enough to know that his conclusions are based
upon assumptions which are as absurd to the
eye of reason as they are dangerous to the
cause of liberty.
r The whole letter is based on the assump
tion of the utter impossibility of a false claim
being made, and upon the idea that the slave
r holder can and will, with unerring certainty,
I in every instance of pursuit, place his fingers
upon the throat of the victim secured to him
by Southern slave law. Now this assumption
of the impossibility of inutile, and of the im
maculate purity of slavehcdd rs, is simply
absurd, wicked and impudent. Even if we
could acquit the slaveholder and slave-catcher
of the slightest desire to reduce freemen to
bondage, free turn from ail suspicion that he
t feels the slighteat temptation to commit such
a crime, and yet is it not plain to every man’s
s common sense that the said worthy slave
f catcher is liable to commit a blunder, a mis
take It seems to me that mistakes are inev
i itable in a matter like this. A slaveholder
loses a slave in the yeai 1835. He learns
that said slave lives in Rochester, N. V. He
i has not seen him for fifteen years, and pei
haps scarcely thought of him for several
I years. He avails himself of the new Fugi
tive Slave Jhll to recapture his victim but
1 in order to recapture him, he must describe
I him. Bear in mind that this claimant is now
r to make a description of a person he saw fif-
I teen years ago, and that the said person must
answer to this description, and that man is
not like an iron chest, (answering its descrip
-1 tion a bundled years after it is made.) but a
creature of constant change, and you will
1 fully appreciate the absurdity of the assump
tion of the impossibility of mistakes. It is
obviously impossible that he should not make
1 mistakes—the more especially as tho slave
holder will himself seldom cotne after the
slave, but will merely send his agent, who
5 may or may not have personally known the
1 alleged slave.
But setting aside this consideration alto
r getlier, and assuming the menial infallibility
1 of slave-catchers, can it be supposed, that
j men who can bring themselves to the degra-
I dation and viilany of hunting men for no
1 crime, tearing them away from their wives
1 and helpless children, and dooming them to a
Jife of cruel torture and chains, will have any
very suong moral sense left, to discriminate,
or to enforce discrimination in the selection of
their victims Hoes not the very vocation of
the kidnapper deaden all the better qualities of
human nature, and make the wretched man
engaged in it, ft* for the perpetration of any
crime which he may commit with less impun
ity T Why, is there not, even now, abundant
testimony on record of the selling of free citi
zens (known to be such) in the Southern
States 1 and in view of such facts, can any
Northern man hesitate, for one moment as to
the peril in which this Fugitive Slave Bill
places every free colored man.
Mr. Crittenden holds the North to the
bond. He says it is well known, historically
and judicially, that this clause of the Consti
tution* was made for the purpose of securing
to the citizens of alaveholding States the
complete ownership of slaves, as property, in
every Slate or Territory into which they
might escape. Let us grant the slaveholder
the full benefit of this wholesale statement;
but does it follow that the North must obey
or submit to a law which strikes down jury
trial, makes the privilege of the habeas corpus
a mockery, and subjects every free colored
citizen of the North to the terrible liability of
being doomed to all the horrors of life-long
slavery Is Congress more sacredly bound,
under the Constitution of the United States,
to restore the slave to slavery, than it is to
protect free meu in their liberty
The “New York Express,” a paper which
a few years sgo denounced me as a “glib
tongued scoundrel,” because I told the Eng
lish public that I was not safe from the kid
napper in any part of the United Stales, has
juined in the bloodhound bray in defence of
this Fugitive Slave Bill, and endorses also the
opinion of Mr. Crittenden. After commend
tog the written opinion to the piofound con*
Section U, An. 4.
•felts at km of e»ery Union nun, Mr. Brooks
of the Express discourse* aa follows:
The pilb of Mr. Crittenden's opinion is,
that the black fugitive from slavery has all
the rights that a white fugitive from justice
Ms, under the Constitution and laws, viz:
the Habeas Corpus—not the uial by Jury in
the State where taken, but the trial by Jury in
the State whence taken.
Mr. Crittenden’s opinion reduces the agi
tation to this issue Has a black negro slave
more rights than a free white man, under the
Constitution V All who are agitators will
aay, ‘Aye.’
The escaped slave has now the Habeas
Corpus in New York, say, and the trial by
Jury in Maryland, if taken theie. No white
freeman haa any more rights. All who are
in favor of giving the negro more rights than
the white man, will say Aye.’
“Any day, any white man, demanded as a
fugitive from justice, may be taken and car
ried off to Georgia or Louisiana, without a
trial bt Jury here. And this has been the
law since 1793; but no matter, that is only a
white man!
“Mr. Crittenden’s opinion takes fromsound,
rational, conserrative, constitutional men, ev
ery c#se or desire for prolonged agitation.—
But will the abolition agitation atop* No,
sever’’
T|ts is not only flagrantly unjust, but vio-
I astir and bitteily malignant upon the face of
ifj 7 Tire ompMWM tU frnm the
whips and chains of slavery with s felon
escaping from justice, stamps the man who
could make it as a villain of the deepest dye.
The colored people of New York ought to
keep an eye to men who can, in the midst of
tnem, hold such language. Certainly no col
ored man should be found willing to take and
pay for such a paper as the Express.”
There is no similarity in the case of a fugitive
slave and a fugitive white man. The white
man is presumed to be innocent until he is
proved to be guilty. His rights are the same
in the State to which lie may be taken, as
they are in the one from which he may be
taken. He can have, aye, must have, a jury
trial, in open court, and compulsory process
for obtaining witnesses in his favor. When
once in ‘he hands of the law, he has the law
to defend and protect him. Whether he will
or not, there is no danger of hie being re
moved or of his whereabouts being unknown
to his friends. He can always be surrounded
with their sympathy and protected by their
vigilance. Not so with the recaptured fugi
tive. He is taken from a State which is pre
sumed to be free, to a State which is pre
sumed to be a slave State—from a State
where he is shielded by the law, to a State
where he is virtually condemned by the law—
from a State where his friends may counsel
and advise him, to a State where they are
forbidden, under pains and penalties, to come.
He may be, in the next hour after arriving in
a (lave State, and before any friend of his can
reach him, sold away, or whipped to death,
or. at any rate, lost forever to his friends.—
The pretence that he may have a jury trial in
a slave State, is a cruel and bitter mockery
ef the man in fetters; foi, it I may except
the single State of Louisiana, there is not one
in which a colored man car prosecute a white
man upon the testimony of colored men, and
ibis the editor of the Express” ought to
know, and doubtless does know. False, how-
Mr. Brooks has been in his slate*
monks, lame as he has been in his logic, and
monstious as he is in his morality, he has
made one truthful prediction in the article above
ami that is, that mili-slavery agitation witf
not cease. No it will go on, and the more it
is resisted the more earnest and powerful it
will become, until the great iniquity apainst
which it is waged shall be overwhelmed in
destruction.— f. d.
Boston, Oct. 35th.
This city is now the scene of the most in
tense alarm. It is positively asserted that
there are warrants now in the hands of the
United States Marshal for the arrest and re
capture of three fugitive slaves, and that Wm.
and Bllen Ciafts are two of the party to he
arrested. Mr. Crafts is aware of the fact,
and refuses to leave Boston. He is armed,
and resolved to stand his ground, and in less
than an hour blood may flow in the streets of
Boston. f. n.
Resolutions adopted at the great meeting,
i Fanieul Hall, Boston, Oct. 14th.
Whereas, the recent act of C'ongicss,
known as the Fugitive Slave Law, has caus
ed great anxiety among our fellow citizens of
color, driving some of them from their homes
1 and leaving others in a state of doubt and ter
ror, incompatible with the power of enjoying
in safety and 'ranquilily their natural rights,
and the blessings of life which are guaranteed
to every individual by the Constitution of
r Massachusetts; and whereas we have assem
t bled in Fanieul Hall at their request, to con
sider the condition of the Fugitive Slaves and
other colored petsons of this city under the
said law, and have deliberated and counselled
1 together, therefore,
i Resolved, That our moral sense revolts
against the Fugitive Slave Law, believing it
to involve the height of injustice and inhu
manity. since it violates the golden rule of
Christianity, of doing unto others as we would
have them do to us, and the command of God
himself, uttered from Mount Sinai, ‘Thou
shalt not deliver unto his master the servant
that hath eacaped from his master unto thee.’
Resolved, that as citizeus, we denounce
this law as contradictory to the declaration of
Independence, as inconsistent with the pur
poses of the Constitution of the United States,
which was ordained to establish-justice, and
secure the blessings of liberty, and as in vi
violuiion of its provisions, because it takes
away the benefit of the Habeas Corpus,—
the right of the people to be secure in their
persons against unreasonable seizures, and de
prives men of their liberty without due pro
cess of law.
Resolved, That we cannot believe that any
citizen can be found in this city or vicinity, so
destitute of love for his country and his race,
and ao devoid of all sense of justice, as to take
part in teturning a fugitive under this law.
Resolved, that we individually pledge to
our colored fellow-citizens who may be en
dangered by this law, all the aid, co-operation,
and relief, which the obligation of each of us
to the supreme law of God and right impose
upon ua; and we accordingly advise fugitive
slaves and other colored inhabitants of this
city and viftinify to remain with us. We
have no fear that any one will be taken back
to the land of bondage, and we trust that such
as have already fled in fear will return to
their business and their homes. s
Resolved, That as we believe this law to
be repugnant to the will of a vast majority of
the people of the United States, their Seiia-
I tors and Representatives ought to demand its
INSTANT REPEAL at the next session of
Congress.
Resolved, That, Constitution or no consti
tution, Law or no Law, we will not allow a
Fugitive Slave tq be taken from Massachu
setts.
Th* Fueuiva Slave Law—Public
Marmo. —We are requested to state that a
meeting on the subject of the Fugitive Slave
Law will be held in this city on Thursday
evening next. The place of meeting will be
designated hereafter.-—The call is signed by
prominent citizens, and a large meeting may
bs anticipated.— Democrat.
Stixkey, Yates County, N.Y., f
Oct. 17. 1850. S
Frederick Douglass :—Having spent ovei
three years in the cotton-growing section ol
the Southern States, I deeply sympathize
with you and jour cause. 1 hudly know
how to express my feelings when I think ol
the accursed system of slavery which dis
graces our nation—this country of churches
and ministers, who tell us, Sabbath sfter Sab
bath, of this “land of freedom, where every
one cag sit under his own vine and fig-tree,
and tgprship God according to the dictates o(
his own conscience.” But it is false, as well
as many other things spoken in the pulpit.
I lived with a family in Alabama who kept
bloodhounds to hunt runaway negroes; and
many is the tale 1 have heard of the chase
after fugitives. At one time, one who had
been out,”- or run away, most of the tunfc
for several years, who preferred to live in
the woods and swamps, subsisting at times
on the charity of hit fellow slaves, obtained
from their cabins at night, and sometimes
stealing from the whiles. He belonged to a
man whose plantain was, on the Alabama
river. Hu had often been chased by the
dogs and men; but being an expert swimmer,
ne nan gnmtny m«trag«<> ...j
fleeing to some swamp not accessible to horse
men, he eluded pursuit. He was an old
offender who thus refused to labor for his
master, to whom his service was due”—for
what 1 never learned; not surely for an educa
tion, for he had none not for the scanty
amount ot food he had received in infancy
and childhood, for his parents, by their daily
labor, had much more than paid for that; not
for his clothing, for he had none until he was
old enough to earn it, and one month’s labor
on the plantation would pay for the clothes of
one year. The slave thought, in strict jus
tice, that the master owed him for years of
service; and as payment was not given, he
at times stole his master’s hogs and chickens,
until finally the master, hiving been battled
I for years, became exasperated and offered a
large reward for his apprehension, dead or
alive. Thi9 roused the cupidity of owners of
I negro hounds, who, after many trials and
failures, finally succeeded in capturing the
poor slave. He killed one dog before he took
to a tree, for which act his pursuers, after
getting him down, suffered the remaining
dogs to bite and tear him so that he shortly
afterwards died. He perished in a noble
struggle for freedom. His destroyers re
ceived the bounty, and boasted of the deed
for which it was paid.
S. B. BUCKLEY.
Letter from Josiah Quincy, Sen.
J. Ingersoll Bowditch, Esq:—My Dear
Sir—Having been requested to state my
viewß on the subject of the fugitive slaves;
many of whom have been long domesticated
among us, and who, alarmed at the supposed
stringency of the new law relative to them,
are preparing some to quit our country for
Europe, and others for Canada, and con
cerning whom there is to be a meeting of
citizens this evening, I take the liberty, to ad
dress this lettei to you, which will embrace
some of my views on that topic,-and submit
them to your disctelion, to be used or sup
pressed.
In the first place, then, it ought, in mv
opinion, to give reasonable satisfaction to
that class of our inhabitants, that in the
State of Massachusetts, no person has ever
been delivered to his master under the law of
1793.
I believe this to be literally the case. It
is, however, possible, in the lapse of nearly
sixty years, cases may haveoccured.of which
theie is now neither memory nor record. If
there have been any such, they have been so
few as to form only exceptions that prove the
truth of the rule, rather than evidence of
its falsity.
Persons, therefore, under these circum
stances, ought to rest at ease, with the as
surance ar.d in the confidence iesulting from
the above fact, that, in the State of Massa
chusetts, the law of 1850 will be just as in
operative for sixty years to come, as (hr law
of 1793 has been for nearly sixty years past.
Theie is, indeed, in the new law, an ener
gy and a vigor of proceeding somewhat be
yond that obtained by the law of 1893, and
this will, undoubtedly, operate, in terrorem
on the slaves in the Southern States, and
thus diminish their attempts at freedom, and
give more quiet of mind to their masters.
The greater stringenev of the new law will
also operate in favor of their masters, in re
spect to slaves who have taken up their resi
dence in Stales adjoining slaveholding States,
among the inhabitants of which there is no
i such genera! repugnance to the slaveholding
system as exists among llie inhabitants of
Massachusetts, and where individuals may
easily be found, who, moved by cupidity,
would readily stem the low tide of obloquy
and reprooch, which exists in those States to
giving aid to masters, in the recovery of their
slaves. But no such fear or apprehension,
concerning the power of the new law, can,
in my judgment, reasonably exist within the
State of Massachusetts. Past events are suf
ficient guarantees for the future. The great
mass of the intelligent Southern slaveholders
understand the universality of the feeling in
Massachusetts, on the subject of this law, and
respect it, and have neither expectation nor
desire that it shall be made to have a retro
spective or retroactive effect. It is possible
that some one or two interested individuals,
running for luck, or desirous of creating ex
citement, may attempt to put the law in force
in Massachusetts. But the great body of
Southern slaveholders understand their inter
ests too well to desire to see crested in Mas
sachusetts Buch an excitement as would result
from an attempt like that affecting the slave
Hamlet in New York; whereby a peison long
residing as a freeman in the State, should be
secretly seized, handcuffed, and hurried out
of it, without aliowing him an opportunity to
apply to counsel for protection, or to the law
of the State, or the sympathies of the vicini
ty. Any man, officer or lawman, engaged
in such an attempt, in the State of Massa
chusetts, if successful, would, I apprehend,
find it difficult afterwards long to remain
resident in a land, the feelings of whose in
habitants he had so universally outraged.
The law of 1793 was not deficient in strenth.
It was ample for its objects, and would have
been as effectual in Massachusetts as it was
elsewhere. Its utter inefficiency here resulted
solely from the unanimous spir.t pervading
the whole people of the State on the subject
of that law, and from the inwrought tover
eignty, in the minds of the people of this
State, of the principle of the Constitution of
the Slate, which secures to every human be
ing within it. the light of trial by jury, in
every caae affecting his life, liberty, or pro
late universality of this feeling within this
Stale, on this law, is attributed, moat falsely,
to the labors of a class of men at this day
known by the name of 'abolitionists.’ That
feeling existed long before any such class had
existence, or even a name. It was grown in
the grata, it was infused by nature as a com
poncut clement into the blood of the people of
this State, I have been intimately acquaint
ed with, and a close observer of, the character
of that people for sixty years, and I do not
believe there has been a moment in which, in
any populous district of this Stale, the law
of 1793 could have been openly enforced; and
without any pretenaion to the spirit of pro
phecy, I foretell that the same will be the fact
of this law of 1850.
4 can apeak of ihia subject with a aotne-
I peraona) certainty ao far aa respeeu the
existence of the feeling prevalent on thin sub
ject fifty-six years age. Sometime about the
year 1794, soon after the first law oa this
•abject was passed, 1 was sent for, aa a couiv
aellor-it-law, to appear before one of oar act
ing justices of the peace,—(Grcenlealj-*—to
defend a person then on trial, under the charge
of being a slave, on the claim of hia master,
for delivery to him. On appearing before
the justice, 1 found the room filled with a
crowd of persons, not one of whom I knew,
but who were attending the court, appearent
iy from interest or curifility. Among them
were the constables, and the agent of the
master, but who the other persona were, or
what was the object of their assembling, I
was ignorant. 1 entered, of course, on my
duties, an advocate, called for the evidence
of the agent's authority, and denied the au
thority of the law of Congress, and of the
magistrate under it, to deliver an inhabitant of
Massachusetts into the custody of another,
unless aftei trial by jury, according to the
Constitution of this Stale. While occupied
with my argument, i was suddenly interrupt
ed by loud noise behind me, and on turning
round, I found, to my astonishment, both the
constables and the agent on the floor, and the
alleged slave passing out of the room between
the files of bystanders, which were opened to
the right and left for his escape.
About a fortnight elapsed, when 1 was cal
led upon by Rufua Creene Amory, a lawyer
of eminence at the Boston bar in that day,
who showed me a Tenet rrom a sonmern
slaveholder, directing him to prosecute Joaiah
Quincy for the penalty, under the law of 1793,
lor obstructing the agent of the claimant in
obtaining hi* slave under the process estab
lished by that law.
Mr. Amory felt, not leas than myself, the
folly of auch a pretence; and 1 never heard
from him, or from any one, anything more
upon the subject of prosecution. This fact,
and the universal gratification which the re
sult appeared to give to the public, satisfied
my mind, that unless by accident, or stealth,
or iu some very thin settled parts of the coun
try, the law of 1793 would forever be inopera
tive, as the event has proved, in Massachu
setts. And the same will, in rny opinion, be
the case, as 1 have already said, with the
law of 1850.
The feeling and the origin of this univer
sality, on tins subject, in Massachusetts, is,
I apprehend, not well understood. It had
its origin in no general disposition to inter
fere with the rights of Southern slaveholders,
but from the surprise and utter disgust of the
law of 1793, which from the first pervaded
every class of citizens in Massachusetts. They
regard that law as violations the principle ol
the compact, as they understood it, when
they acceded to the Constitution of the United
States. In accepting that clause of that
Constitution which provides that ‘person
held to service or labor’ in any other State,
and escaping into Massachusetts, should not
be discharged from such service or labor, in
consequence of any law’ passed by her, and
that she would deliver up, on claim, such per
sons to the party to whom the sir. ice may be
due; the people of Massachusetts understood
that such claim should be enforced, in confor
mity to and in coincidence with, the known
and established principles of the Constitution
of Massachusetts That pledge, the people
of Massachusetts, by accepting the clause in
the Constitution of the United Stales, sol
emnly gave; and that pledge the people ol
Massachusetts have never violated; and 1
will add, they will never violate it. The
law of 1793 undertook to modify the terms ol
that pledge, availing itself of certain general
constructive powers of the Constitution of the
United States, and by wresting them to pur
poses to which they were never supposed ti
be applicable. Had it been anticipated, by
the Convention of Massachusetts which
adopted the Constitution of the United States,
that the general powers it couveyed would be
so construed as to authorize the passing of a
law of Congress, riding over and trampling
down the great principles of the Constitulior
of Massachusetts, which secures to everj
human being within the State the right o
trial by jury, I cannot question for a moinem
that the objections which such an anticipation
would have raised would have been insur
ns mutable, and the Constitution of the Unitec
States would never have received the sanction
of that Convention. Could it have been an
ticipated by that people, that a law would be
passed superseding that great principle ol
human fteedom, and that in this State, in
which the claimant of ownership fur a cow
an ox, a horse, or an acre of land, could no
be divesteJ of his right without a trial by
jury, yet that, by the operation of such a law 1
a citizen might be seized, perhaps secretly,
carried before a single magisliale, witlioni
the right of proving before a jury his title ol
himself, he sent out of the Slate, on the cer
tificate of such single magistrate, into hope
less and perpetual bondage, it is impossible
in my judgment, that the Constitution of the
U. S. could have received the sanction o
one-tenth part ofthe people of Massachusetts
The law of 1793 unquestionably excited in
the people of the United Slates universal sur
prise and disgust, and a willingness to coun
teract the provisions of that law became a
settled feeling and policy of the people of the
State; and this feeling became so general,
that the attempt to enforce the law within the
State became hopeless from the first; and
this, 1 have already staled, arose from no
general disposition in that people to interfere
with the rights of Southern slaveholders,
but from the general opinion prevalent in the
State, that Southern rights, when prosecuted
in Massachusetts, should be pursued under
■he principles of the laws and Constitution of
this State. This was the natuie of the pledge
given by this people in accepting the clause
hi the Constitution of the United States, re
lative to ‘persons bound to service in other
States, and escaping into this.’ This pledge
the people of Massachusetts even have vio
lated, and, as I believe, never will violate.
Let the laws upon this subject be so modi
fied as to give to every person, whose service
is thus claimed, the right of trial by jury, be
fore being sent out of the land, and the uni
versal dissatisfaction would be almost wholly
allayed. And the Southern owner, under the
law so modified, will have no more obstacles
to his success, than what is inherent in the
nature of such trial.
Let it not be said that this wauld be keep
ing the promise to the sense, and breaking
it to the hope, because not twelve men could
be found in the State who would do justice to
the slave owner on such trial. Without ad
mitting, for a moment, that there is any truth
in such a suggestion, 1 will only say—if it be
true, and no twelve men in the State could
be found who would not violate their oath,
rather than be concerned in returning a slave
to his master, cau any fact be imagined more
conclusive the folly of attempting to
enforce such a law within the limits of a State
in which such principles and feelings so uni
versally predominate!
But 1 have extended.my remarks beyond
my original intention. My great object has
been to give such opinions and views as
ought, in my judgment, to give peace of
mind to the class of persons agitated by their
apprehensions from the recent Congresiottal
law’—and tended to assure them they may
abide safely, as the have already done, under
the protection of the laws of Massachusetts
and the sympathies of her citizens. And in
addition, 1 would express s hope, that nothing
should be done, in this meeting, giving the
subject a party or political aspect, which I am
assured was not the intention of those who
originated the call of it.
I am, Sir, very respectfully,
Yourfriend and servant,,
JOSJAH QUINCY.
Quincy, Oct. 14, 1850.
Baltimoxc, Oct. 19th.
Capt. Conklin, who had been employed
for 15 years in bringing rice from Santee to
Charleston, was informed last Tuesday by his
employers that he could no longer expect pat
ront>R. ft* tut n« a Vnrthamar Tt itmttt
The following resolutions were adopted at
the recent large Meeting of the colored citi
aena of Philadelphia, hold in the Brick W so
le; Church of that city.
Whereas, the Declaration of American In
dependence declares it to be a aelf evident
truth, “that all men are created equal, and
«odowed by their Creator with certain in
alienable Tights, among which are life, liberty
and the pursuit of happineas:” and whereas,
the Constitution of the United States, Ait. 1.
Sec. 6, declares that “ihe privilege of the
writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended;’'
and Art 5. of the Amendments, that "no
pera*Mi shall be deprived of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law;’’ and
whereas, tho Fugitive Slave Bill recently
enacted by the Congress of the United States,
ia in clear, palpable violation of thane several
provisions; therefore
1. Resolved, That while we have hereto
fore yielded obedience to the laws of our coup*
try, however hard some of them have botae
upon us, we deem this law so wicked, so
atrocious, so utterly at variance with the
principles of the Constitution; so subversive of
the object of sll law; the protection of the
live#, liberty, and property of the governed;
so repugnsnt to the highest attributes of God,
justice, and mercy, and so horribly cruel in its
clearly expressed mode of operation, that wo
deem it our aacred duty, a duly that we owe
to ourselves, our wives, our children, anJ to
our common nature, as well as to the panting
fugitive from oppression to resist this law at
any tost ana sHm trazsnts; w 9 ft6reby
pledge our lives, our fortunes, and out sacred
honor so to do.
2. Resolved, That we deem the laws of
Uod at all times paramount to any human
laws, and that, in obedience l<> the command
to “hide the outcast, and bewray not him that
wandereth,” we shall never refuse aid and
shelter, and succor to any brother or sister
who has escaped from the prison-house of
Southern bondage, but shall do all we can
to prevent their being dragged back to a Sla
very inconceivably worse than death.
3. Resolved, That whenever a Government
‘fraraeth mischief by law,” or “decrees un
righteous decrees,” or concentrates all its
power to strengthen the arm of the oppressor
to crush the weak, that Government puts it
self in an attitude hosflle to every principle of
justice—hostile to the liberal spirit of the age,
and hostile to that God who “executed) right
eousness and judgment for all ihat are op
pressed.” r
4. Resolved, That in our resistance fo this
most cruel law, we appeal to our own boast
ed Declaration of Independence, to the inhe
tent iighteousnes of our cause, to the moral
sense of enlightened nations all over the world
and to the character of that God, who by a
series of the most astounding miracles on
record, declared hi> sympathy lor the oppres
sed and bis hatred of the oppressor.
5. Resolved, That feeling the need in this
tryiug hour of the Wisdom that erreth not,
and the aim that is invincible to defend and
guide us, we therefore call upon all ihe col
ored pastors of oui churches in the Free
States (so called) to set apart the first Mon
day night in each mouth, for public prayer
and supplication, that the hearts of all this
people may be so turned to the weak and the
oppressed, that the operation of this cruel
law may be powerless, and that the time may
soon come when “liberty shall be proclaimed
throughout ALL this land unto ALL the in
habitants thereof.”
6. Resolved, That we will hold up to the
scorn of the civilized world that hypocrisy
which welcomes to our shores the refugees
trom Austrian tyranny, and at the same time
would send the refugees from American Sla
very back to a doom compared with which,
Austrian tyranny is mercy.
7. Resolved, That we endorse, to the full,
the sentiment of the Revolutionary patriot of
V irginia, and should the awful alternative be
presented to us, w ill act fully up (o it—“ Give
ite Liberty or give me Death.”
8. Resolved, That a Committee be ap
pointed to draft an appeal to the citizens of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, setting
torlh the Anti-Republican, Anti-Christian,
Anti-human nature of the Fugitive Slave
Bill, and asking of them their sympathy and
succor.
Resolved, That having already witness
ed, to some extent, the cruel operations of this
law, having felt such anguish as no language
can describe in seeing the wife flying from
her home and the embraces of her husband,
and ihe husband compelled to fly from his
wife and helpless children, to gain that secu
rity in the land ot a Monarchy which they
could not enjoy in this Republic; we ask,
the American people, what have we done to
suffer such treatment at your hand*? And
may we not, in the sight of that God, with
whom there is no respect of persons, appeal
to your sense of justice and mercy to have
this moat cruel law repealed as soon as Con
gress shall re-assemble, and in the meantime
may we not ask you to create by ail lawful
means, such a public sentiment as shall ren
der its operation upon us powerless?
10. Resolved, 'l hat in the spirit of bravado,
neither affecting unconsciousness to the ctuel
ties of public sentiment and law, in regard to
our unfortunate and abused race, but seeing
dearly, and knowing fully, the unjust preju
dice existing against us; using only those
moral means of truth sufficient as we deem
them by a certain process to the “pulling
down the strong holds” of the injustice and
wrong that now afflict us, yet in view of the
unheard of atrociousness of the provisions of
this infernal Fugitive Si ave Bill, we sol
emnly declare before the most High God, and
the world, to resent to the death any attempt
to enforce it upon our persons, adopting fully
the noble sentiment of the Irish Patriot—
hetlier on tlie Jcatiold high,
Or in the hatde’s van.
The fittest place where man can die,
Is when lie dies lor man.
Alleged Conspiracy to Kidnap —The
Philadelphia Ledger say*; On Saturday, in
the Court of Quartet Sessions, Win. Jackson,
Samuel Miller, Edward Tillerman and Wm.
Flamer, colored, were charged with a con
spiracy to abduct and kidnap Wm. Henry
Taylor, a colored boy, and conveying him to
some unknown quitter, without the consent
or knowledge of those who claimed his legal
custody. It was in evidence that the boy,
with others, was placed in charge of an in
dividual, as free colored persons. He was
sent to a family in West Philadelphia, but in
consequence of a threat that he was about to
be kidnapped and taken to Virginia, he came
to this city and reaided with his adopted
mother. Sevetal persons, it was proved,
were after him, and during the present month
removed him in a carriage—since which time
he has not been heard of. It was alleged that
the persons who were manumatted
slaves', but in consequence of bad conduct on
the part of Taylor previous to hia freedom,
the family in whose set vice he had been,
wrote to have him returned, so that he should
serve out a term of years. An indignation
meeting was accordingly held, and measures
agreed upon to prevent the removal of the
lad to Virginia. Whether he has been taken
to that Stale or sent to Canada, is not known,
and hia friends have brought these proceed
ings to ascertain hia whereabouts. The csss
waa continued, in order to allow time to re
fceive answers to letters, which have been ad
dressed to various parties residiog at a dis
tance.—Rochester Democrat.
The First Slav* Hunt.— ln Chicago,
under the new law turned out a failure. A Mr.
H pursued two slaves from Missouri to
that city, with a fat, sleek and contented
slave to assist him. The contented slave ran
away, and finally the hunter himself ran away,
being terribly frightened by a vision of tac
and feathers.— Ckronotype.
K7* We learn from good authority that
Slave Hooters are iu Boston in pursuit of
fugitives. Lei (he colored people keep
•harp look out for the blood hound*.—Emm,
More Negro excitement in Philadelphia}
—The first “Fugitive” cate there—The
law enforced.—Judge Grier’s opinion,
Tuesday afternoon, an alleged fugitive
slave was arrested by one ot the deputy mar*
shals. He was arrested while at wrrk as a
hod carrier, on Ridge Road, near Poplar
street, at the instance of Thomas P. Jones,
of Cecil county, Maiyland.—The name of
the prisoner was Henry Garnet, and he ap
peared to be about twenty-seven years of age.
It appears that he has been absent from his
master for eight years, and during that time
haa been residing in different parts of this
city and county.
The prisoner being arraigned before J udge
Grier, he claimed counsel, through a colored
friend, when Mr. Pierce appearedin that ca
pacity. Mr. Pierce made a motion to post
pone the case for a further hearing, which
was carried, for the purpose, no doubt of
affording Chas. Gibbons opportunity to at
tend.
The right of property was traced through
several wills to the present owner, but when
the identity was about being established, the
motion to postpone was made, and further
proceedings were stopped.
Jjidge Grier in commenting upon the case,
said that this (the motion to postpone) was
a precipituous proceeding; yet he desired to
give the prisoner a fair opportunity to procure
proper defence; and if he had proceeded in a
summary manner, it would be owing to the
ill advice the colored population were receiv
iri£f Tl»wo«te Jku A Know l**y m.J*
the force of the law, and many paragraphs
appeared in the newspapers inciting the color
ed population to resist the provisions of the
statue in relation to the fugitives. He was
determined to maintain the full power and
majesty of the law. If reliance was at
tempted, he would invoke the aid of the mili
tary, and jn order to pieserve the sanctity of
the Court, the most stringent measures would
be resorted to. He warned tne colored popu
lation from using violence.
The laws of Pennsylvania make it illegal
to place the prisoner in any of the jails of the
country. The Marshal is responsible for his
security, and, therefore Marshal Roberts took
the fugitive into custody. The deportment
of Mr. Jones, throughout the proceedings,
was calm and courteous.
Although his prsition was exceedingly em
barrassing he evinced no trepidation, but ap
peared like one deteimined to maintain his
rights administered by the law. The law
must be maintained at every hazard
This affaii, of course, ha 9 caused an im
mense sensation among out coloted population.
Being the first arrest made under the new
law, in this county, it has awakened many
fugitive slaves to a sense of their true posi
tion. They may be incited to violence by bad
ed risers.
From tlie Philadelphia Ledger of Saturday.
The Fugitive Slave Case. —The hearing
in the case of Henry Garnet, colored, who
was arrested on T hursday as a fugitive from
labor, from Cecil county, Maryland, was re
sumed yesterday morning before Judges Grier
and Kane, in the U. S. Circuit Court. The
prisoner, during Thursday night, was kept
in the custody of the 1). S. Marshal, and as
no provision has been made in this State for
such prisoners, he was not removed from the
court house.
Mr. Hugh W. Tener appeared on the part
of the claimant, and Messrs. Robert P.
Kane, David Paul Brown, Charles Gibbons,
and William S. Pierce, in behalf.of Garnei.
Judge Grier explained to the respondent’s
counsel that ihe prisoner was charged with
being a fugitive from labor for a term of
years which was to cease upon his attaining
the age of thirty years, under a will of Mar
garet Sanders, the alleged former owner of
the respondent.
Mr. Tener opened the case. He said that
he was desirous to submit the facts to the
Court without comment, and that if they
were not satisfactory to the Court he would
not object to the discharge of the prisoner.
He then offeied in evidence the will of Mar
garet Sanders, bearing dale December 9lh,
1838, and the will of Benedict Jones to
Thomas Price Jones, the legatee and execu
tor of the same, and who now makes the
claim before the Court.
Mr. Gibbons objected to this evidence, on
the ground that the papers were not so certi
fied under the acts of Congress as to admit of
their admission, ar.d cited the authorities
which sustained his objection.
The Judge decided against admitting the
papers, and clearly pointed out the course
which the claimant ought to have pursued in
prosecuting his claim under the late act of
Congress. He said the party should have
gone befote a Judge or Magistrate and had
his papers properly certified. The case ought
to be made out at home, and then nothing
would be necessary but to prove the identity
of the prisoner as the individual, so show n to
have been a fugitive from labor.
Mr. Tener then proceeded to show that
Henry Garnei is a slave, and the circum
stances of the case, by verbal evidence.
Richaid Sensans, sworn—l live in Phila
delphia; I have lived in Cecil courtly, Mary
land; left there a year ago last September; I
knew a colored boy in Cecil county; it is said
he was a slave; he was in the employ of
Benedict Jones and Price Jones, who claimed
him as their slave; 1 kew him twelve years
ago, at the time he left; 1 was born in Kent
county, and removed to Cecil; I fust became
acquainted with the boy in 1848; he was then
in Mr. Benedict Jones’ employ, whose slave
it was said he was; I can’t say how long he
continued in Mr. Johes’ employ; he left Mr.
Jones’ employ in 1842; he was recognized in
the neighborhood as a slave; when he escaped
he was in Benedict Jones’ employ, and said
to be his slave; I believe him to be his slave;
I have seen the prisoner at the bar; he is the
same person: 1 have no doubt at all; Benedict
Jones died since 1 have been in this city; it
was said this man was a slave for a term of
years, how long 1 can’t say; 1 heard he was
to be free in time; he was reported lobe 17
yours old when he left; when he ran away his
time had not expired; he was not set free by
Mi Jones.
Two other witnesses weie examined, but
t.o mat-rial facts weie disclosed.
John W. Jones was called as a witness, but
objected by Mr. Brown, on the ground of be
ing a party in interest —he being a son of
the late Benedict Jones.
Mr. Tener asked the court to allow the
claimant until this morning for the purpose of
having his documents properly attested, and
the case brought before the court in accord
ance with the rules laid down in the law.
Mr. Brown suongly opposed this motion,
contending that as the law was a stringent
one, the giving of every advantage to the
claimant would be a monstrous perversion of
justice. The party had had ample time to
prepare his case, and having began erroneous
ly, the prisoner ought not to be kept in cus
tody until Mr Jcnes can make up the deficien
cy of his case. The precedent would be a
bad one, and followed by all in subordinate
positions who act for the courts; besides, one
side was just as much entitled to a postpone
ment as the other, and in the mean time the
prisoner would jjfctaorived of the most
estimable of aiUMPMus liberty.
The Court afkmst any futiher ex
tension of time. MKjghi years’ delay had al
ready been had’ih reclaiming the slave, and
the Marshal was under great responsibility,
and he did ndf fee) disposed to add to his re
sponsibility, if he could avoid it. He was
disposed to give justice aa well to the master
as to the slave—but the master must prove
his case to the veiy letter—he should have
his pound of flesh, but no note. —Even an
ti fart case bad not been made out, and a*
the Legislatnre of the Slate has forbidden the
use of jails in the Commonwealth for securing
fugitive slaves, the prisoner was ordered to
he discharged.
In the coarse of the hearing, Judge Grier
stated ih*t he had preferred that tire case
should come Wore the court instead of a
United States Commissioner, so that the
practice should be established, sod the pro-
oeedmgs in future cnees be conducted regu
larly.
The excitement among the crowd was in
tense, but it exhibited itself in no act of in
decorum, until the discharge of Garret was
announced, when the most boisterous cheer
ing followed. He was received by his friends
with most extravagant tokens of joy, and
was borne off the ground with incredible
speed. So ended the first case brought in
this city undeT the new Fugitive Slave Law
of the United States.
From the Philadelphia North American of Saturday.
As the liberated black man was leaving the
Court, a cry was raised by some persons
laboring under mistake, that he was escaping.
In his alarm he ran thaough Independence
Square, pursued by officers and spectators,
and jumped over the iron railing into Sixth
street. Officer Wm. Wood, of the city
police, having his attention attracted by the
mob, and not understanding the case, but very
naturally supposing the negro to bo fleeing
from justice, headed him off snd endeavored
to stop him. He and the negio man came in
violent collision, and the latter desperately
assailed him. and seising hia finger in his
mouth, came near biting it off. Mr Wood
was beset by a number of blacks, and han
dled with great roughness. One of the color
ed mob, a mulatto man, named James Berry,
cried out to the test to kill the white
meaning officer Wood. This man, with an
other colored man named John Foreman, was
arrested and taken before the Mayor, who
<.cr« ,Hem id nan m luw eacn rtj answer
the charges of assaulting and resisting the
officer* and inciting to riot.
There were vatious rumors as to threats
of open and armed resistance on the part of
the colored population, aided by intemperate
and reckless while men, to the execution of
the fugitive Slave Law, but no demonstration
of this kind was made.
The Fugitive Slave Law—Opinion oi Mr.
Crittenden.
Attorney General's Office,
18th September, 1850. J
Sir: 1 have had the honor to receive your
note of this date, informing me that the bill
commonly called the Fugitive Slave Bill,
having passed both Houses of Congress, had
been submitted to you for your consideration,
approval and signature, and requesting my
opinion whether the sixth section of that act,
and especially the last clause of that section,
conflicts with the provision of the Constitu
tion which declares that the privilege of the
writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended,
unless when, in cases of rebellion orinvasin,
the public safety may require it?”
It is my clear conviction that there is noth
ing in the last clause, nor in any pait ot the
sixth section, nor indeed in any part of the
provisions of the act, which suspends, or was
intended to suspend, the privilege of the writ
of habeas corpus, or is in any manner in con
flict with the Constitution.
The act of the 12th February, 1793, be
fore alluded to, so far as it respects any con
stitutional question that can arise out of this
bill, is identical with it. It authorizes the
like arrest of ihe fugitive Blave, the like trial,
he like judgement, the like certificate, with
the like authority to the owner, by virtue ot
that certificate as his warrant, to remove him
to the State of Territory from w'hich he es
caped. And the constitutionality of that act,
in all those particulars, has been affirmed by
the adjudications of State tribunals, and by
the Courts of the U. States, without a single
dissent, so far as I know. [Baldwin's C. C.
R., 575, 579.]
1 conclude, therefore, that so far as the act
of the 12th February, 1793, has been held to
be constitutional, this bill must also be so re
garded, and that the custody, restraint, and
removal, to which the fugitive slave may be
subjected, under the provisions of this bill,
are all lawful, and that the certificate to be
granted to the owner is to be regarded as the
act and judgment of all judicial tribunal hav
ing competent jurisdiction.
With these remarks as to the constitution
ality of the genera] provisions of the bill, and
the consequent legality of the custody and
confinement to which the fugitive slave may
be subjected under it, I proceed to a brief con
sideration of the more particular question you
have propounded in reference to the writ of
habeas corpus, and of the last clause of the
sixth section, above quoted, which gives rise
to that question.
Myopiuion.as before expressed, is, that
there is nothing in that clause or section
whi'-h conflicts with, or suspends, or wa9 in
tended to suspend the privilege of the writ of
habeas corpus. I think so, becaue the bill
says not a word about that writ; because, by
the Constitution, Congress is expressly for
bidden to suspend the privilege of this writ,
“unless w hen in cases of rebellion oi invasion
ihe public safety may requite it,” and there
fore the suspension by this act (there being
neither rebellion nor invasion) would be a
plain and palpable violation of the Constitu
tion, and no intention to commit such a vio
lation of the Constitution, of their duty, and
their oaths, ought to be imputed to them
upon mere constructions and implications; and
thirdly, because there is no incompatibility
between these provisions of the bill and the
privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, in its
utmost constitutional latitude.
Congress, iri the case of fugitive slaves, as
in all other cases within the cope of its con
stitutional authority, has the unquestionable
right to ordain and prescribe, for what causes,
to what extent, and in what manner persons
may be taken into custody, detained or im
prisoned. Without this power they could not
fulfil their constitutional trust, nor peiform the
ordinary and necessary duties of government.
It was never heard that the exercise of that
legislative power was any encroachment upon
or suspension of the privilege of the habeas
corpus. It is only by some confusion of ideas
that such a conflict can be supposed tc exist.
It is not within the province or privilege of
this great writ to loose those whom the law
has bound. That would be to put a writ
granted by the law, in opposition to the law
—to make one part ot the law destructive of
the other. This writ follows the law, and
obevs the law. It is issued upon proper com
plaint, to make inquiry into the cause of com
mitment or imprisonment, and its sole remedi
al power and purpose is to deliver the party
from “all manner of illegal confiement.”
(3 Black. Com., 131.) If, upon application
to the Couit or Judge for this writ, or if, upon
its return, it shall appear that the coafinement
complained of was just and lawful, ihe writ
in the first instance would be refused, and in
the last the parly would be remanded to his
former lawful custody.
The condition of one in custody as a fugi
tive slave, under this law, so far as respects
the wiitof habeas corpus, is precisely the
same as that of all other prisoners under the
laws of the 13. States. The privilege of that
writ remains alike to all of them, but to be
judged of—granted or refused—discharged or
enforced —by the p.oper tribunal, according
to the circumstances of each case, and as the
commitment and detention may appear to be
legal or illegal.
The whole effect of the law may be thus
briefly stated. Congress has constituted a
tribunal with exclusive jurisdiction, to deter
mine summarily, and without appeal, who are
fugitives from service or labor under the 2d,
section of the fourth article of the Constiiu
tion, and to whom such service or labor in
due. The judgment of every tribunal or ex
clusive jurisdiction, where no appeal lies, is
of necessity conclusive upon evety other tri
bunal, and therefore the judgment of the
tribunal created by this act is conclusive upon
all tribunals. Whether this judgement is
made to ap|*ar, it is conclusive of the right
of the owner to letain in his custody the
fugitive from his service, and to remove him
back to the place or Stale from which he es
caped. If it is shown upon the application of
the fugitive for a writ of habeas corpus, it
prevents the issuing of the writ—if upon the
return, it discharges the writ and restores or
maintains the custody.
Thia view of the law of this ease is fully I
sustained by the decision of the Supreme
Csurt of the United States in the ease of To
bias Watkins, where the Court refused to
discharge, upon tne ground that he was w
custody under the sentence of a court of
competent jurisdiction, and that judgment was
conclusive upon them. (3 Pet., 905.)
The expression used in the last clause of
the sixth section, that the certificate therein
alluded to “shall prevent all molestation” of
the persona to whom granted, “by any pro
cess issued/’ die., probably mean only what
the act of 1793 meant, by declaring a certi
ficate under that act a sufficient warrant for
the removal of a fugitive, and certainly do not
mean a suspension of the habeas corpus.
I conclude by tepeating my conviction, that
there is nothing in the bill in question which
conflicts with the Constitntion, or suspends or
was intended to suspend the privilege of the
writ of habeas corpus.
1 have the honor to be, very respectfully,
air your obedient servant
J. J. CRITTENDEN,
To the President.
8 Who are Abortionists.
i T L t
It haft become fashionable, of late, in the
w Northern States, to brand every man who
f ventures to express an opinion hostile to the
institution of slavery, as an abolitionist. No
matter how devoted to the Union the individ
g ual may be; no matter how unimpeachable
may be his integrity; if he dates to exercise
.i&t.. a. Aceuioii, in giving utterance to
his honest convictions respecting tbe odious
institutions of slavery; if he presumes to call
ih® justice and humanity of the
Fugitive Slave Law, he is denounced as an
‘'abolitionist,” an “incendiary,” an enemy of
the Constitution.
This cry of “mad dog,” is raised by par
ties who place a higher value upon Southern
votes than upon the principles of morality or
religion. According to their code of morality,
the slave-catcher or kidnapper, is a respect
able character, compared to the unhappy in
dividual whom they think proper to character
ize as an “abolitionist.”
It is time that all the free men should pro
test against this intolerance; and the most ef
fective protestation which can be made
against it, is an explicit declaration of princi
ples on the part of all those who hold slavery
to be a curse, who regard the institution with
abhoirence, and who earnestly desire to see
it forever abolished from the land.
According to the practical defination of ab
olitionist i, given by the parties above tefeued
to, every honest man in the Northern States,
deserves he title of abolitionists. Who is
therein tus country that does not hold sla
vety to be a curse 1 What man is there in
the North that would not, if he could, to-mor-
I row, banit h it for ever from the country
We do not know of any such. The cry,
therefore, of “Abolitionist,” is as senseless as
it is wicked, and the duty of every honest
man is to troat it with contempt.
For our part, if an intense hatred of slavery,
a fixed determination to oppose its farther ex
tension, and an anxious desire to see it who!
ly abolished, if this constitute an abolitionist,
then do we cheerfully accept the title. More
over, if hostility to the Fugitive Slave Law,
and a steady resolve to labor for its repeal, 01
modification, if this be abolitionism, than are
we willing to be called an “Abolitionist.”
We are devotedly attached to the Union,
but attachment to the Union does not wiih us
involve attachment to slavery, attachment to
crime. We are the friends of the Constitu
tion, but friendship to' tbe Constitution does
not, in our philosophy, mean enmity to free
dom, enmity to humanity, enmity to justice,
morality and religion.— N. Y. Sun.
Fugitive Slave Bill.—The conduct of a
portion of the northern people in preventing
the citizens of the slaveholding States from
recapturing fugitives slaves, has generated
more ill-feeling between the opposite extremes
of the Union, than any other cause put to
gether. It was indeed a crying evil, and
demanded the immediate legislation of Con
gress. We are glad to discover* that the
members from every section have taken a pro
per view of its importance, and that the Sen
ate has passed the bill which was befure that
body, with such provisions and amendments
as will likely be satisfactory to the South. We
have not seen the bill, but understand that
southern Senators were requested and allowed
to make it as*stringent as possible, and so to
to frame it as, jn future, to the rights
and property of their constituents. It is
stated in the telegraph notices of the bill that
all Marshals of the United States, are bound
to execute all warrants for the appiehension
of fugitive slaves, and safely keep such as
they may arrest under a penalty of $lOOO.
Any person obstructing or hindering the
claimant from arresting his slave is subject to
alike fine of $lOOO. Ills thus to be hoped
that, if the House does its duty, the Causes of
complaint and dissatisfaction may, one by
one, be removed during the present session,
and the country lesioted to peace. This is
the ardent wish of every friend of the Con
stitution, every patriot of the Union. The
enemies of either will be silenced in the gen
eral rejoicing.— Columbus Ga. Enquirer.
Incediarism.— The panic among our South
ern brethren seems growing to a fearful hight.
It is not only Abolition tracts they fear but
Abolition candles are dreaded as incendiary.
Hear the Richmond Inquirer:
"A few days since we were surprised to
hear that out merchants still continue to pur
chase and sell the candles manufactured by
Jackson, the noted Abolitionist, who shows
his gratitude for the tteasure drawn from
Southern pattonage, by urging on the Anti-
Slavery fanatics to the most deadly aggres
sions on Southern rights and properly. We
trust to see this 'informed altogether,’non-in
tercourse, in such a case, is a vital matter of
self-defence.”
To this the Southern Press adds:
"Henceforth therefore, the candles if not
the politics ot the Abolitionists, are to be
resisted. They may take our territory, but
we are determined not to take their candles!
never, never, never, at all hazards and to the
last extremity/’
'1 he fears of the Southerners are not, we
confess, altogether unreasonable in this mat
ter. If theie are any candles that would
sputter at a slaveholder they are our friend
Jackson’s.— A. S. Standard.
The North Ruined! —To the Editors of
the Charleston Mercury (30ih) Messrs.
Editors:—"For good and sufficient reasons
me thereunto moving,” 1 have determined
hereafter to use
No Northern Coaster to carry my crop.
No Northern Cloth for my Negroes’cloilt
ing.
No Noithern Shoes, if others can be ob
tained.
No Northern Soap, Candles, Flour, or
(Ohio) Bacon.
No Northern Potatoes, Cabbagisa, Fruit
or Hay.
No Northern Butter, Cheese, or Pr*
served Fish.
No Northern Refined Sugar.
And, in fact, nothing that is produced at
the North that can possibly be procured from
any other region, and I would respectfully
suggest the same course to others thst will
be pursued by—A Planter.
The Charleston News says the planters of
the State have come to the determination to
employ no more Noithern coaaters. Capt.
Conklin, who.has been fifteen years at the
business, has been compelled to leave the
State in quest of business.— N. Y. Evang.
ID* The Toronto Globe understands thst
G. P. R. James, the novelist, has rented a
hocae in Toronto, and is about to lake up bis
residence in that city.
We see from one of the American papers
that Miss Bremer has paid a visit to Fred
erick Douglass, —London Inquirer,
I A Fugitive Escaped.—The Chicago
Democrat say*: On Thesday a fugitive was
“pul through by daylight” for Canada, under
the following ciieu instances, which are too
good to be lost. A slave escaped a few day*
since from one of the back counties of Mia
eouri and came to this State. His pursuers
hearing that he was in.Quincv, 111., passed
over to that city, taking with them another
•lave who was to identify the runaway, and
whom they hired from his owner at ao much
per diem, giving a guarantee that they would
return him "in good order and condition" as
when received. At Quincy they were in
formed the runaway had taken the under
ground track for Chicago; and forthwith they
proceeded to this city, bringing their 'man
who was to identify the fugitive along with
them. Here, however, they received the un
kindest cut of all. In ibe first place, the in
dividual was not here and never have been;
in the next place, the colored people got
their heads together,’gave the negro they
brought with them for identification purposes
a hint as to how "things was working,” and
on Thursday evening they ahipped him offby
rail to Canada, where by this time he is safe
ly set down beyond the reach of bis pursu
ers; they, poor fellows, decamped for the
South the same evening, their departure being
hastened by a thre« of "tar and feathers”
from the excited colored population, who are
up in arms, and nightly, as well as daily, on
the watch for white gentlemen with sallow
complexions and broad rimmed hats.
Congress.— After one of the longest, and
certainly one of the moat disgraceful Ses
sions ever held by the National Legislature,
Congress has adjourned, to the great relief of
the people, leaving what mischief they bad
plotted, and were unable to accomplish, to
the next Session, which will assemble in two
months. That they have served their mas
ter, the Slave Power, to the full extent of
their ability, is too evident for doubt; and
that they have not done all that Southern ar
rogance and avarice demanded, ia owing to
the force of a public opinion which they could
not resist. That the most greedy of slave
holders could ask more, or grumble at their
failure, is an astounding proof of thsir ingrat
itude, and their unappeasable appetite for do
minion.
The Bill to abolish Flogging in the Navy
has passed the Senate, and that barbarous
practice, is for ever at an end. There is one
concession to the humane spirit of the age,
made jn the face of a strong opposition from
the South, and some of their Northern tools,
at which we may rejoice. The Spirit Ra
tions are not abolished. The Mileage Re
form, Cheap Postage, internal improvements,
and other important measures, are sacrificed
for the interests of the slavery propagandists
and slave-hunteis. So may we expect all
our legislation to bend to Slavery, so long as
it is the favored monopoly of the Govern
ment.—Penn. Freeman.
The Fugitive Slvve Bill—lts Execu
tion the true test or the Union.—The
spirit of opposition manifested in Western
Pennsylvania, New York City, and Spring
field, Massachusetts, to the execution of the
Fugitive Slave Bill points to the true test of
the permanence of our Union. Those South
ern men, who now advocate Disunion, de
clare the belief that the public sentiment of
the free States is so hostile to Slavery as to
make it impossible for the slaveholding
Slates to protect their rights under a common
Government. If this opinion of the strength
of Northern prejudices were acquiesced in
generally by the Southern peeple, there would
be, and ought to be, no hope of preserving
the Union. But, up to this time, very few
in the South have been able to persuade them
selves of the incompatibility ot Northern and
Southern sentiments. The extremists of the
North now threaten rebellion to a law of Con
gress, which does Nothing mote than guaran
tees our undeniable rights. If the mass of
the people do not discountenance these threats,
antf do not manifest their purpose to respect
the law, the value of the Union will begin to
be calculated in earnest. Here is an issue
about which there cannot be two Southern
opinions. —Richmond Fia.) Times
"Gknerou* Sentiments” across the
Atlantic. Kossuth in captivity from
which speedy liberation to him—writing to
General Cass—-calls that officer "a worthy in
terpreter of the generous sentiments of the
great American people.” The brave Hun
garian may not know, perhaps, that certain
sentiments of the great American people re
quire interpretation, and that of a very partial
kind, to be understood j|s generous. Thir
notion of human flesh being—tf black—“a
species of properly.” bespeaks a sentiment
rather slioit of generosity. The sentiments,
too, which dictated their recent law, in re
gard to runaway slaves, need a clever inter
preter to reconcile them with antything like
nobility or magnanimity, except a magnani
mous contempt of the Christian religion, and
a noble disregard of common justice and hu
manity.—Punch.
The Slavocrahc Press of this city is
mighty busy with efforts to induce a quiet
acquiescence by the people in the enforce
ment of the Kidnapping bill. But its wick
edness is quite all wasted. It will serve nei
ther the conductors of that press nor its
Southern friends. Some one has said; "Sin
is too precious to be wasted.” We have no
recollection ot having before witnessed such
a waste of that "precious” article as is now
made by the slavocralic press of Boston. Its
managers might enrich themselves by a wise
expenditure of one tithe of the amount which
they now throw so recklessly away. The
people will not quietly submit to be kidnap
ped. They want no peace which is not in
the Apostolic order: "fimt pure, then peace
able;” and God forbid that they should.—
Chronotype.
ID 3 The Union (Father Ritchie) thus ex
horts ‘the Nationals’ with reference to the
approaching New York Election:
"The times are big with danger—you must
not shrink. Your country demands your
most earnest exertions, shall she demand them
in vain' Wings or th* Sotun, what say ye?
Are you ready to coalesce with Messrs. Hunt
and Seward? Can you all lie down peaceful
ly together in the same truckle-bed? 'Are
you sure that while Seward is bargaining and
tinriguing to get your votes, some Chaplin,
Smith, or other humble follower, niay not
steal your servant who is brushing your boot
or cooking your dinner? It will be well to
keep your eye on these worthy confederates
in upholding the great Whig cause. Their
political principles and practices may not be
equally profitable and agreeable to you.
Judson Hutchinson Insane. Judaon
Hutchinson, one of the members of the
“Hulchinson Family,” arrived in this city
from the west, on Fiiday, in a state of insan
ity, induced by an attack of brain fever, at
Cleveland, Ohio. He remained at the resi
dence of Rev. S. J. May, until yesterday
morning, when he left for the east, in com
pany with the remainder of the “Family,”
who returned from the west with him. His
condition is very unsatisfactory, and it is the
design of bis friends to take him to the'lnsane
Asylum at Worceatet, in hopes of effecting a
cure. It is said that the fever which produc
ed this terrible malady, was caused by the op
eiation of Mesmerism. Insanity, however, is
hereditary in the family.— Syr.'Standard.
The Cleveland Taut Democrat very
truly gives an idea which we commend to the
special attention of the false Democrat of the
Boston Poet. It is a* follows:-
“"lhe Fugitive Law applies to wans ap
prentices, and all whites who owe set vice. If
the employer be cruel, harsh, tyrannical, the
poor boy, the white who owes service, has no
remedy. If he seeks another and happier
home, that employer—his master, now under
the Fugitive Law—may seise him with or
without process, and compel hire against any
and all proof, to be virtually his slave.
Philadelphia, Oct. 18.
The Foeinn Siate Cam m Philadel
phia.—Tbe examination of the Negro charged
with being a Fugitive from Maryland, waa
continued this morning. A tremendous
crowd of Blacka and Whiten assembled in
front of the Court House.—The officer■ re
fused to admit reporters. After a hearing,
the Negro was discharged by Judge Grier.
The excitement on his beia| set free was in
describable, his eery clothes were torn from
his back by his colored brethren.— Trib 1
Prediction. —The New York Herald
**y« “The piesent administration at
Washington have great capacity—mighty
talent—wonderful tact, for the ormaaM for
eign and domestic affairs of the republic; bui
for the terrible anti-slavery crisis now re
opening by Seward, Weed dec., they have
neither moral courage, moral energy, nor
moral tact, at all sufficient to meet the emer
gency. Mr. Fillmoie and his cabinet will be
Tylerized in six weeks time by Seward and
Weed. Mark that prediction.”
Anti-Slavery Meetings la Western If
David Green Wheelbanks, a Fugitive
Slave, will hold Anti-Slavery meetings on
Sunday, Oct. 90, at East Henrietta.
Monday, 21, at Webster.
Tuesday, 22, at Ontario.
W*d«uMdaj>. Oct. 23. at West Walworth.
Thursday, 24, at Walworth.
Friday, 25, at Palmyra.
Saturday, 20, at Marion.
Monday, 28, at Williamson.
Tuesday, 29, at Pultneyville.
Wednesday, 30, at Sodus.
Thursday, SI, at Red Creek.
Friday, Nov. 1, at Oswego.
Saturday, 2, at Fulton.
Monday, 4, at Baldwinaville.
Tuesday, 5, at Jordan.
Wednesday, 6, at Weedsport.
Thursday, 7, at Port Byron.
Friday, 8, at Clyde.
Saturday, 9, at Newark.
Monday, 10, at Macedon.
Tuesday, 11, at Egypt.
Friends of the Slave we call upon you in
this crisis to “do your duty.’’ Now is the
time for action. Convene large meetings in
your respective towns, to listen to the appeal
of one who has felt the iron yoke of bondage
and tasted the bitter cup of slavery. We
commend D. G. Wheelbanks to your care and
attention.
The North Star Fair.
The Women’s Association” of Philadel
phia intend holding their Second Annual
Fair, for the support of the North Star, on
Christmas week.
We feel that no great work can be rightly
done unless men and women co-operate.
To our male friends, whom we found
helps-mete” for our first Fair, we look
earnestly and confidently. Brothers, you will
not fail us!
To secure the hearty co-operation of breth
ren and friends, at home and abroad, we be
lieve it is only necessary to announce our
intention.
Donations of Paintings, Engravings, Fancy
Needlework, articles of food, &c., will be
gratefully received by any member of the
Committee.
On behalf of the Association,
SARAH M. DOUGLASS.
JUDGE JAY ON THE BLOOD
HOUND BILL.
The following letter from Judge Jay
appeared in the Evening Poet of this
city a lew days since. We copy it at
the request of one of the gentlemen to
whom it was addressed, though without
that request we should not have per
mitted a paper so characteristic of its
author, and so worthy of the widest
circulation, to escape our notice. No
clearer exposition of the infamous law
which may, at any time, make any
of us a slave-hunter or a slave, hasyei
been offered.
Bedford, 2d October, 1350.
Gentlemen: In pursuance of instruc
tions given you by a meeting of color
ed citizens, you ask me, in your letter
of the 27th ult., my opinion first, “of
the constitutionality and binding force”
of the late act of Congress for the sei
zure of fugitive slaves; and, secondly,
of the course most proper to be pursu
ed by our colored citizens in reference
to the personal jeopardy in which they
are now placed.
Many years since, I endeavored to
prove, in an argument published at the
lime, that Congress has no constitution
al power to pass any law whatever re
specting fugitive slaves. I find from
Mr. Webster’s speech of 7th of last
March, that such is also his opinion.
But the Supremo Court has otherwise
determined, and hence Mr. Webster
advised the Senate to exercise power
which the Constitution, in his judgment,
had conierred exclusively on the States.
The law in question appears to ine as
palpable a violation of the Constitution,
as it certainly is of the principles of
justice, the rights of humanity, and the
obligations of the religion of Jesus
Christ.
Of the “binding force” of this law,
in its practical operation, I entertain no
doubt. It is said, I know, that it is too
atrocious to be executed, that public
opinion will not endure its enormities.
Be not deceived. There was indeed a
time when such a law would not have
been thought of, much less enforced at
the North. Some years since, as I
was directing a fugitive os to the route
lo Canada, he told me, to my surprise,
that he wished to go to Massachusetts, j
On asking him,*Svhy, be said he had
heard Mr Adams say at Washington,
that it a slave once got into Massachu
setts, there were not tjwelve men in the
State who would give him up. Littlej
did Mr. Adams anticipate to the recent!
developements of Boston gentility and
Andover divinity.
The slave-catching law is a boon
granted by the North, not a measure
fastened ‘upon us by the slaveholders.
It is a law passed through Massachu
setts influence, voted for by the Rep
resentatives of Boston and appro
ved and applauded by a very large
number of politicians. A presidential
election is approaching, and the result
will be decided by Southern votes.
Hence our politicians will seek to pro
pitiate the slaveholders by zeal and
diligence in slave-hunting. The law
wi'l be executed in al4 the pfentitude of
its diabolism, or, to use the words of
Mr. Webster, when pledging his sup
port to the bill, then before the Senate,
‘to the fullest extent —to the fullest
extent.”
If you ask my opinion, of the “bind
ing force” of this law in a moral sense,
I answer that its binding force is pre
cisely the same as was that of the iaiv
of Nebuchadnezzar, commanding the
multitudes on the plain of Dura, to fall
down and worship his golden image—
of the decree of Darius, forbidding
prayer to God forthirty days—of the
order of the Jewish magistrates to Peter
tand Paul “not to speak at all, nor to
each in the name of Jesus”—of the
commands of the Roman Emperors,
that Christians should cast incense on
the altars of idols —of the edicts of
Louis XIV., requiring Hugenots to
embrace the faith and practice the
rites of the Church of Rome. This ac
cursed statute requires us to become
notice instruments of treachery, cruelty
and oppression to the persecuted bui
innocent fugitive —to set at naught the
law of Jehovub, to do justice and love
mercy— to trample under foot the greai
commandment of our blessed Redeem
er, to love cur neighbor, and, regard
less of his authority, to do to others
what would fill our souls with anguish
if done to ourselves. Let us, with out
families, enter the dungeons which
Northern politicians have prepared,
rather than hazard our souls by render
ing obedience .to the requirements ot
this wicked law.
Most deeply do I sympathise ou
in your unhappy state. With your
wives and children you are now placed
at the disposal of any villian who ia
ready to perjure himself for the price
you will bring in the human shambles
of the South. With less ceremony and
trouble than a man ran impound bis
neighbor's ox, you may be meta
morphosed from a citizen of the State
of New York, to a beast of burden on
a Southern plantation. On leaving
your house in the morning, you may
be enticed into another, where one oi
then newly appointed commissioners,tf
ter reading one affidavit made a thou
sand miles off, and another that you
are the person named in the first or on
the bare oath of the kidnapper himself,
may infoim you to your amazement and
horror, that you are a slav*. The fet
ters previously prepared are placed or
your limbs, and in a few minutes you
are travelling with railroad velocity tc
a Southern market. Never again will
you ever behold your wife and children,
nor will any tidings from them evei
reach your ear. The remainder o:
your life is to be one of toil and stripes
In this war against human rights '‘the
law’s delay” is utterly unknown.
The Commissioner is commanded tc
J««patcb (he mtt'nir "Mr A SUMMAIII
manner,” The oath of the wretcl
who has seized you, and who expect!
to clear eight hundred or a thousanc
dollars by your sale, is of itself all suf
ficient and abundant proof that you art
his property, while your own oath It
the contrary is excluded by law. Th<
act gives you no right to demand i
postponement of the hearing, allowi
you no process to command the attend
ance of witnesses, no time to send foi
counsel. However essential these
privileges may be to your restoratior
to freedom to family, to happiness
you must beg them as favors to be gran
ted or denied at pleasure, from a crea
ture, who has accepted the office of t
slave-catching judge, and who is t(
be paid ten dollars if he dooms you t(
Slavery, but onl y five if he sets you at
liberty! And who is this Commission
er? Heretofoie he was a person ap
pointed by the United States Courts tc
perform certain acts, as taking affida
vits, &c. JYow he is elevated to the of
fice and dignity of a Judge, and *ht
Courts are expressly commander
“to enlarge the number of Commit
sioners, irith a view to afford reasonable
facilities in relation to fugitives from la
bor.” Hence these Judges are to be
appointed for the express and only pur
pose of catching negroes, and the
amount and condition of their reward,in
dicate the character of the men, whe
it is expected will accept the infamout
office.
From the decision of one of these
men, given under the circumstances 1
have described, there is no appeal tc
any court in the United States. Yel
this man, whose judgment is too sacred
to be reviewed, and in whose awfu
presence the trial by jury, the habem
corpus, and all the forms of the commor
law devised lor the protection of liberty
are but as things of naught—this higl
and mighty judge, who sits in judgmeni
upon the right to the souls and bodies
of immortal beings, made in the image
of God, is deemed unworthy to decide
on the title to a horse. Such a ques
tion is referred to a higher court! And
how are these omnipotent slave-catch
j ing commissioner-judges appionted?
No popular vote invests them with their
j tremendous powers—no President and
Senate are responsible for their lenrn
j >ng, wisdom and integrity, notwith
standing the constitution entrusts to
them tho appointment of the federal
judges. Among the wonders of the
times, is this discovery of judicial gen
eration. By virtue of this new law,
judges procreate judges at pleasure,for
the convenience of the slaveholders'
Our Commissioner-judges are to
have a tbree at their command to main
tain their dignity and execute their be
hests. They are authorized to appoint
an unlimited number of slave-catchers,
and each of these miscreants is empow
ered, by law, to roam through the
whole extent of the state, executing
warrants, seizing alleged slaves, white
or black, ordering out the postt comita
tus, calling the citizens, from their em
ployments and commanding them to
join in slave hunts. Should any dare
to refuse obedience to the satanic man
date, a fine of $l,OOO and imprison
ment for six months will vindicate the
insulted authority of the slave-catcher.
When the chase is ended, and the man
is taken, he may be guarded and trans
ported to the slave region, at the ex
pense of the NATIONAL TREASURY.
Thus have our doughfaces—whigs and
democrats—in taxing their constituents
to give jobs to slave-catchers, and to
rivet the fetters of the bondsmen,.fallen
down in the dust, and licked the very
feet of the slaveholders.
You ask me how you shall secure
yourselves from the kidnapper. God
only Lnowi. May Ho have mercy on
you, for our low makers have had none.
Rumors have reached me, of an inten
tion on the part of our colored citizens
to curry arms in self-detence. If I
have earned any title to your confidence
may I not ask you to ponder my ad
vice, to abandon such intention? Most
freely do I confess my utter ignorance
of any system of morals founded by di
vine authority on the color of a man’s
skin. Whenever, and tor whatever
cause, God permits a white man to take
life, I believe he equally permits a
black man, in similar circumstances, to
do the same. Some, I know, maintain
(hat life may never be taken in self
defence. But it is not on this ground
that I urge you to abstain from the ust
of deadly weapons. I implore, I be
seech you, not to attempt the life of the
kidnapper, first, because his death
will not secure your safety, and being
therefore unnecessary, it would be
morally wrong; and, secondly, because
such an act of violence would prove
the scource of great evil lo yourselves,
and to your brethren.
The facilities afforded by this law to
the kidnapper are so great, the means
of converting you in a slave are i*o
plainly prescribed, the physical force
furnished him for perpetrating the out
rage is so abundant, that tho whole vil
lany will be done according to law,”
and under circumstances rendering re
sistance vain. The fraudulent affidavit
will be regularly verified, warrant duly
issued, the seizure strictly legal. Hence
should death occur by your resistance,
you would m law bo deemed guilty oi
murder, for having slain an officer in
the legal discharge of his duty. Think
you, that at a time when parties are
sacrificing truth aad honor for south
ern votes, and thoir leaders openly
scoffing at the “highor law/’ that you
would be permitted to eccape with im
punity? There would be a mighty
struggle among our politicians who
should make the most southern capital
out of the slaughter of a slave-catcher
The pro-slavery papers of New York
and Boston would be seized with a fit
of horror and indignation against the
blood-thirsty negroes, and of admira
tion for the patriotism of the departed
martyr, and for that lolly devotion to
“the compromises of the constitution”
which had cost him his life.
The occasion would, moreover, be
embraced for rendering new homage
to the slaveholders, by urging the for
cible expulsion to Africa of all such ne
groes as unhappily have no masters to
•ake care of them, and control their
savage tempers; and not unlikely hints
would be thrown out that, before long,
self-preservation requires the re-estab
lishment of slavery-at the north. Such
an act would furnish gn excuse for
armed hand* roaming
through the country, insulting and ter
rifying our citizens, and picking up ne
groes at pleasure; for you will recol
lect, they may be seized either with or
without warrant.—Leave, I beseech
you, the pistol and the bowie knife to
southern ruffians and their northern
mercenaries. That this law will lead
to bloodshed, I take it for granted, bui
let it be the blood of the innocent, not
of the guilty. If anything can arouse
the torpid conscience of the north, it
will be our streets stained with human
blood, shed by the slave-catchers.
Most deeply do I feel and deplore
the wrongs inflicted upon your race,
bond and free, by a people professing
to be Christians and republicans, and
greatly do I fear that a righteous Prov
idence will make those very wrongs the
instruments of his vengeance, by means
of the moral leprosy they are spreading
through our country. This very slave
catching law has a direct and powerful
tendency to beget in our people a
reckless contempt for the rights of in
dividuals, a disregard for the usual
conservatory forms of legal and judicial
proceedings, and a selfish indifference
for the claims of humanity.
For years, most strenuous efforts,
prompted by commercial and political
views, were made to deprive the oppo
nents of slavery of their constitutional
privileges by lawless violence. The
right of petition was suspended—the
freedom of debate interrupted—the
sanctity of the post office violated—
public meetings dispersed—printing
presses destroyed—furious mobs exci
ted-churches sacked—private houses
gutted, and even murder peapetrated.
All this violation of rights was regard
ed with complacency by many who had
much at stake, so long as abolitionists
alone were its victims. But the spirit
of aggression thus raised and fostered,
is seeking new subjects, on which to
exercise its power. “Gentlemen of
property and standing” are rarnr begin
ning to feel alarmed about socialism,
antirentism, agrarianism, &c. Hence,
of late, we hear much of the impor
tance of conservatism, as it is called.
The political movements of the last few
months seem to indicate that our land
lords, and our cotton-lords, and mer
chant princes, regard an alliance with
the aristocracy of the south, as at least
in some degree a security against the
violation of vested rights, sequestration
of rents, oppressive taxation, unequal
laws, &c, &.c. To the influence of gen
tlemen ol this class, the late slave law
owes its passage.
And is it believed, that the rights of
the ricn will he protected by familiari
zing the populace with the practice of
injustice and cruelty towards the poor?
Will the sight of innocent men seized
tu our streets, and sent in fetters to till j
the broad fields of great land-owners,
increase the reverence felt for land ti
tles? Is it wise to give the people
practicaj lessons in the demolition ofall
the barriers raised by the common law
tor the protection of the weak against
the strong:' It is true conservatism to
obliterate in the masses, the sense of
justice, the feelings of humanity, the
distinction between right and wrong?
No man looks with more loathing than
I do, on the destructive and disorgani
zing theories of the day; but I have no
idea of counteracting them by the ex
tension of human bondage, and the ex
ample of ferocious injustice iu hunting
innocent men and robbing them of all
the rights of humanity. The only con
servatism to which I look for the pro
tection of my rights and my property,
is that “higher LAW,” which, with the
authority oi Deity and the sanctions of
the invisible world, says to each indi
vidual, high or low, rich or poor, do
JUSTICE, LOVE MERCY—DO TO OTHERS
runt SHOULD DO TO YOU.
But, alas! this law is sneered at by
men whose all depends upon its obser
vance. The vindications of property
in man, which are poured forth from
the pulpit, the forum and the press
the maintenance of caste in the church
—the apathy with which the oppression
of three millions of countrymen is
viewed—the permission given to intro
duce slavery into our new territories,
with a pledge to receive them as slave
States—the broken faith of many of
those by whom the permission and
pledge were given—the contempt ex
pressed for the scruples of conscience,
and the horrible iniquity of the fugitive
law—are all combining to break down
those barriers of justice, humanity, and
the fear of God, which, under our pop
ular form of government, can alone
May the flood of spoliation and anarchy.
Well may we tremble, lest God should
apply to our nation the maxim of his
moral government towards individuals
“whatsoever a man soweth, that shall
ne also reap.”
Yours respectfully,*
WILLIAM JAY.
Messrs. George T. Downing, William
P. Powell
Icy There was a very large Anti
ugitive Slave Law meeting in Cleve
tod on Saturday last. It was resolved
at in case of an attempt to make ar
dats, the alarm he given by "cries in
Ue street* and the ringing of the fire
belle,”
Jl JAY ON THE Fl'filTlVE
LAW.
Hon. William Jay, at the application
of a committee of colored men, has
written an opinion respecting tbe new
law, which, as might he expected,
strongly condemw it. He unhesitating
ly pronounces it unconstitutional, as op
posed to tbe principles of justice and
humanity, and an likely to result in
great wrong and hardship to the color
ed population. Yet he earnestly dis
suades from any forcible resistance to
its operation, as nothing can be gained
by such resistapce, and as it would
tend to increase the hardships of the
class upon which it presses, at best,
too heavily. Resistance would give
color to the pro-slavery clamor at the
North, and furnish an excpse for vio
lence on the part of stave-catching.
"Leave,” says his address to this class
—"leave, I beseech you, the pistol
and the bowie-knife to Southern ruf
fiians and their Northern mercenaries.
That this law will lead to blood-shed,
I take it for granted, but let it be the
blood of the innocent, not of the guil
ty. If anything can rouse tbe torpid
conscience of the North, it will he our
streets stainedkum*« blood, shed.
by «he slave-catehers.”
The advice here tendered, however
wise, it is hardly possibly that it will
be always heeded. It is a style ol
neroism not olten attained in this
world, quietly to submit to an act of
aggression and otrage like that which
tbe slave-catcher attempts in making
his assault upon the fugitive. Society
and laws have made war upon the
colored man They disown him; they
outlaw him, and afford him no protec
tion. And in this war he throws him
self upon 'he rights of his manhood, and
defends himself when no one else will
defend, who can blam him? And if the
pursuer falls in the conflict, we cannot
see whom he has to blame but himself.
As an illustration of this doctrine,
we may state a fact which has not yet
found its way into tne papers. A week
or two ago, an athletic, stalwart ne
gro arrived at this port in a vessel
from the South, apparently unknown to
anybody on board. As the boat reached
the wharf, and the fugitive—for such
he is supposed to have been—attempt
ed to again the shore, tbe first object
he met was the keen glance of hi:,
master, who, missing his slave, and
suspecting the route he had taken, hur
ried on by the more rapid conveyance
of the railroad, and arrived in New
York long enough before the vessel
containing his runaway slave, to obtain
bis U. S. Marshal, and to present him
self at the boat, ready to recapture his
victim as he landed. The parties met,
and understood their relations at a
glance. The master, hirnseif nn ath
letic man, pointed to the officer by his
side, informed the slave that this was
United States officer, who must not be
resisted. The logic was not conclusive
to the poor fugitive. He ruised a
brawny, powerful arm, which appeared
to have the force of a dozen sledge
hammers, and before a word could he
uttered or a motion made, laid the
officer senseless upon the ground. The
crowd around caught the meaning of
the scene with electric sympaty, and
raising a shout, urged the fugitive to
flee, and covered his flight from the
enraged master, till trace of him was
utterly lost.
Now, these consenting citizens
were law-abiding men, yet they saw
not, and we defy any man to perceive,
any wrong in tho resistance of this
heroic fugitive. He felt himself at
war with the government and with op
pressors, and he only availed himself of
the natural rig t<of war, and the blame
must rest uponlßioae who commenced
strife by assaulting the rights which
were thus summarily redressed. What
ever we may think of the policy of
such acts, they are too obviously ac
cordant with every instinct of justice
to be honestly condemned.—.V. Y.
Evangelist.
The Free-Will Baptists o.v the
Fugitive Bile. —At the tri-ennial ses
sion of the Cenference of the Free-
Will Baptists, held at Providence, a
short time since, the following resolu
tions were adopted in reference to the
Fugitive Slave Law:
R ‘solved, That we do deliberately
and calmly, yet earnestly and decided
ly, deny any all obligation on our part
to submit to the unrighteous enact
ments of the aforesaid Fugitive Slave
Bill. Also, that regardless of unjust
human enactment, fines and imprison
ment, we will do ail we can consistent
ly with the claims ofthe Bible to pre
vent the recapture of the fugitive, and
to aid him in his efforts to escape
from his rapacious claimants.
Resolved, That as "we ought to obey
God rather than man,” Acts 5, 29, in
disobeying a ciuel and wicked human
law and patiently submitting to its un
rightouto* f«iialtie» £nr suoK
cnee, we are "subject unto the higher
powers that be,” Rom. 13, 1, in the
highest and holiest sense of that divine
command; that is in the same sense in
which the apostles, primitive Christians,
and the subsequent Christian martyrs
obeyed it when they disobeyed the
Jewish, heathen aad Popish laws.
Resolved, That we de most deeply
sympathize with those who after hav
ing escaped from human bondage are
now in great fear, anxiety and distress
on account of the passage of the Fugi
tive Slave Bill. We also recommend
them to use all the means to preserve
the liberty, that religion, conscience
and reason will justify under their har
rassing and distressing circumstances.
Resolved, That the conduct ofslave
holders and their abettors iu procuring
the annexation of Texas in order to
afford security to slavery, their efforts
to establish the unmerciful institution
in the free territory acquired by the
war caused by that annexation; aho
their violent opposition to the admission
of California into the Union as a free
State, and their threats to dissolve the
Union it they cannot be permitted to
carry slavery where they please, arc
developments that affords increasing
proof ot the deep inherent depravity
if American Slavery, and likewise call
loudly for continued and increasing
Christian and constitutional efforts for
its abolition.— Democrat.
ICT* A lie has no legs, but scandal
has wings.