Fellow Citizens:— We have con
vened in this beautiful grove, amid
refreshing breezes, and under the
bright orb of Heaven, to pay homege
-to this day—The day that saw the
shackles in the British West India Is
lands fall from 800.000 souls.—Let us
in view of this fact rejoice; let the old
and the young, the lame and the blind
join in the chorus, until the earth itself
shall ring with praise.
Yes, let our hearts leap, but oh! let
us not forget *the poor bleeding slave,
the husband and wife, parent and
child, who while we arc offering up
our feeble petitions and prayers to the
throne of God, hundreds, nay thous
ands are groaning and toiling under
the lash beneath a Southern sun. Fel
low Citizens, turn your mind’s eye
back to the time when our glorious
Declaration of American Independence
was declared. Thomas .Jefferson, an
eminent Statesm in and scholar was
ike author of that admirable document.
He was a Virginian by birth and a
slaveholder, but could not find it
m his heart to take sides with the op
pressor. Hence he gave vent to the
manly instincts of h.s soul, when he
spoke to the tyrant King of Great
Britain in the following bold lan
guage:—
“We hold these truths to be self
evident that all men are created free
and equal; that they are endowed by
their Creator with certain inalienable
rights; among which arc life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness.” This
declaration was ratified and signed by
56 or 7 of the revolutionary fathers on
the 4th day of July, 1770. Twelve
years afterwards, in 1788, and the
Constitution of the United States was
adopted; but before this was finally ac
complished a w arm discussion arose on
the slavery question, and so imbued
were the men of those times with the
spirit of the revolution that they
would not, nor did not acknow
ledge slaves in the .National instrument
as properly. This clinches the much
contested truth beyond the power of
successful cavil, that Congress that
framed the Constitution and laid the
corner stone of this Union was anti
slavery in feeling and principle.
I p to notwithstanding this
great truth, no very great efforts had
been made against slavery in the States,
and its concomitant evils. The coast
wise slave trade was carried on to an
inhuman extent, and is to this da y.
es, at the very Capital of the Nation,
where the Stars and Stripes may be
seen floating m .the air, hundred s ol
men, women and children are chained
together as beasts of burden.
Neither had the humane and philan
thropic turned their attention to the
hec colored people. They appeared
to be content with limiting the evil ol
slavery—of curtailing it* power—ol
teasing and fretting it, scarcely ever
dreaming that the true Interest of the
country and human ly demanded its
entire overthrow, /ibold, self sacri
icuig/, and intelligent spirit was need
e to combat the heathenism and idola
o the age—llsat man was found in
of W flliam Lloyd Garrison,
lie seized the quill and commenced
ic publication cl the liberator in the
city of Boston.. Oj the merits or de
ments ol this journal, I will leave for
posterity to decide.
It opposed slaver y in the States, in
H»*trict of C olumbia, upon the
high sea*, and acknowledged the com
tttoa brotherhood y'f man. Thi» feature
THE NORTH STAR
j in its vocabulary fell upon the car o
ihc negro-hating, liberty loving people
of the North, as a death knell. Hence
the noble hearted Garrison was taker
by a vile mob and dragged like a dog
through the streets of Boston! And, at
our Saviour, was spit upon, reviled ant!
abused by the rabble. This howevei
did not quench the patriotic fire tkal
burned in his bosorn. The “Libera*
j tor" still sounded in the valleys and
I upon the hill tops; sounded upon the
cotton plantations of the South; thence
it crossed the billows of the Atlantic,
and wherever it touched, its power wai
felt and acknowledged. The slave
holders becamfe alarmed and offered
1 five thousand dollars for his head.
O execrable wolves, who not content
with having robbed us of the dearest
boon God ever vouchsafed to man,
I Human Liberty, would murder one of
our truest and best friends to satiate
their greedy appetites. Surely if Bene
diet Arnold deserved death for betray
ing his country, these worse than
traitors ought to have been bung upon
the highest pole for seeking the life of
a true American citizen, because he
chose to serve God rather than the
devil.
But the bribe availed nothing, and
hundreds now joined the cause of the
persecuted man and his coadjutors that
had hitherto stood aloof, and have
from that notable day to this, done no
ble work for God and Liberty. Lec
turers and writers sprang up in every
quarter, men of stout hearts and firm
intellects; and like the great John
Howard, they went with their tongues
•nd pons into every hamlet and village,
town and city of the North, and ex
hibited in true characters the raw body
and blood hones of slavery.
I After giving a statement of the progress
of ami-slavery agitation and of events favor
ii g slavery, the Orator goes on to say:—
Admirers of Adams—followers of
the glorious Ordinance of 1788—Sons
of the Pilgrim Fathers—Descendants
of that brave hand of sable soldiers,
who gallantly defended the land of
Columbia, I do not wonder that your
indignation has been kindled into a
blnze; and that you have hoisted the
flag of American Libert/ with his
rnotto inscribed upon it:
“Liberty for the white, the few
“From the oppressors thrall'
“!Vay! but liberty, liberty too
“For tl»e blacks, for all!
“Slavery shall not stamp her bait
“Oil uny men or man.”
Colored Americans, awake! for the
days of that hydraheaded monster that
has made us aliens in the land of our
birth are numbered. Yea, it is written
in indelible characters on the tablet of
the American heart, that slavery shall
and must die. Else what mean those
demonstrations that come to us by
every gale. The press of the North,
with scarcely an exception, has borne
testimony against slavery and its fur
ther extension. The highest courts of
law have reiterated and adopted the
great maxim of Lord Mansfield—that the
moment a slave crosses the bloody line
that made him a chattel, his chains
fall, and he stands up in the spirit of
British law “redeemed, regenerated,
disenthralled.”
Now turn your eyes to tho South and
smypathize with her in her strug
gles many of her best minds and
hearts are with us, and only desire a
favorable omen to give in their udhe
sion. Already some of her bolder
spirits have sounded the alarm. Alex
ander Campbell, the distinguished di
vine of Virginia has issued a pamphlet
to the Baptist friends of his persuasion
in Kentucky, catling on them to unite
with the emancipationists in forcing
the chains from the slave. The leader
ship of the cause in this State is under
the masterly hand of Cassius M. Clay.
His eloquence and power is like that
of Demosthenes, which moves as a
thunder storm, carrying every thing
before it.
Henry Clay, the favorite Statesman,
has at last placed himself partially on
the side of the free. He recently pre
sented a system of emancipation for
the people of Kentucky. It does not,
it is true, come up to our ideas of jus
tice, but withal, it has one redeeming
quality, for it has taken sides with
the emancipationist, and at a time
which tries men’s souls.
Thomas H. Benton, of Missouri, is
also moving. The Legislature of that
State instructed him to vote against the
Wilmot proviso. He positively re
fused, and appealed from the instruc
tions to the people, who are soon to
render a verdict. Meanwhile he baa
been canvassing the State, and as the
great Irish orator Curran, or the still
greater Sheridan of England, he has
handled his subject, the subject of truth
and justice—Liberty against,Slavery
with an ease, power and eloquence,
that command the veneration of his
enemies. He will, I have no doubt
triumph. Honor then and success to
Thomas H. Benton of Missouri, and
the other master spirits of the South.
Heaven grant that they may never fail
;to do their duty, duty to themselves,
duty to their country, duty to their dis
franchised fellow citizens and theii
God. —May they live to see the day
when the cursed name of a slave shall
not be heard in all this boasted “l*iw
of the free and home of the brave.”
And if it should not be my happy lot
to join in the Hallelujah and Hosann*
of that anticipated hour, when al
Heaven and earth mog*ng *h<
praise, my ejaculation is, God bteee H
God preserve it, God booor it, tot
hand it down to posterity ae the bright
est relic of the nineteenth century.
j. u. per*iks.
Fellow CfT has beei
from time immemorial, a practice
among alt nations to celobrttt sertsu
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR-GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARF BRETHREN
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1849.
important events, wherein some 'great
calamity has been averted, or unusual
blessings bestowed by Providence, or
the birth of some distinguished indivi
dual, or a brilliant conquest 09 the
held of battle. There have been and
are different manners of celebrating
different occasions by returning
thanks to God, feasting and rejoicing,
bonfires and bacchanalian orgies. We
have assembled to celebrate ag oc
casion that has few parallel cases in
the history of the world—a day sfered
to liberty, one of the brightfir®tn her
calendaff is wteck- her loveliness has
stood, on bjfijjfi with the curse of
blood. It *4' one of tbs «iL*nt and
peaceful triumphs of Christianity, there
fore when time ushers in this glorious
morn, and Heaven's chandelier from
the vaulted sky pours forth its flood of
gold, how many hearts that are swelling
with love and gratitude, send up their
pure offering to him who has said “is
not this the last that I have chosen to
loose the bands of wickedness —to
undo the heavy burdens and let the op
pressed go free, and that ye break
every yoke.”
The cause of universal liberty is
progressing in keeping with the dis
semination of the gospel. It is the
hand-maid of religion, and whitherso
ever the one goeth, the other will be
found there also. From the days of
Nimrod the mighty hunter, to the
present time, there has been carried
on a deadly contest between justice and|
injustice, liberty and tyranny —an effort
upon the part of the people to regain
their rights which tyrants have usurped
from them.
But, fellow citizens, what is our con
dition in this land “of the free heart’s
only home?” Our slightest faults are
engraven on stone, end our brightest
virtues written on water. I know all
of our countrymen are not guilty of
this wholesale injustice, yet popular
opinion has done it, at the quiver of
whose lip justice breaks her sword, and
politicians and piiests turn pale and
tremble. Where are the people that
could live under the oppression that
we endure Has pot every bulwark of
our liberties been assailed? the liberty
of speech and the pr&s stifled? Are
we not deprived of the right of trial by
jury, and of all protection from the
Federal gevernment? Yet we feel
ourselves to be citizens, and that we
are entitled to the rights and im
munities of other citizens; and it is my
prayer that some of us may live to see
the day that every word, aye, every
letter shaft be erased from our !law
books that determine the rights of man
by the color of his skin. Painfully
have we felt the conseqences, debarred
of all political privileges, we have no
part in making the laws which govern
us; therefore powerless to correct the
abuses which oppress us. Shorn of all
that enlarges the aspirations or beauti
fies the soul—stript of rights, the ten
dency of which is calculated to alienate
those patriotic sentiments which should
fill the breast of every man towards his
native land—the anti-American legisla
tive enactments which prevent us pass
ing to and from the various States of
the Union —the black and hellish laws
which incarcerate an unoffending citi
zen and exaet a heavy fine for his
release, and if unable to satisfy those
unrighteous demands, is sold into sla
very or sent to a state prison! These
are burdens too heavy—too heavy to
be borne; and this at the capital of our
country, where the voices of Clay,
Corwin, and Webster, mingle their
sound with the clank of chains on inno
cent limbs, and the shrieks of sorrow
stricken mothers torn from their babes.
This is no over-wrought picture, but a
true tale. This is done to free citizens,
tax-paying citizens, guilty of no crime
but the color of their skin—yet are we
free and of the manor born, and claim
this as oar home by the gift of heaven,
our inheritance by the right of birth.

But a new era is coming in. The
world has been awakened from a long,
long sleep of stolidity and stupor. A
voice from the indwelling of eternity
has gone out upon the four winds to all
the world, the voice of Omniscience,
proclaiming liberty to the nations.
From the freemen of France is heard
the shout of no more kings, liberty,
fraternity and equality. Along the Alps
is heard the shout, and the seven-hilled
city answers back. The shout is heard
along the Danube’s shore, and the
German catches the heart-cheering
sound. Still the sounds roll on amid
the Carpathian terraces and Julian
Alps, and the sturdy Hungarians, with
souls eager for the scene, buckle on
their armor. Behold!
M wake* in region* where darkness veiled
the people.”
And now, fellow citizens, as the
world is on the advance in morals and
intelligence, and men are becoming
free every where, we may look forward
with renewed hope that the day is not
far distant when we may become the
happy participants in this general joy.
To prepare our posterity to assume
a higher position in society, we must
educate them, morally, practically, and
intellectually,* niske them mechanics,
and tillers of the soil, producers as well
as consumers. We should en
deavor to make their lives proverbial
for virtue, industry, economy and tem
i In educating our children,
1 ui us have particular regard to moral
culture* To be learned in books alone,
is of but little value. It is virtue then,
I gays Locke, direct virtue is the hard
and valuable part to be aimed at in
education; and I T"™"* P*" o
or any little arta of shifting. All other
coiwdcrationa and accotnpliahmeola
i should give wujr to this. Thu it the
solid substantial good which tutors
1 should not ooty read ledum and talk
of, but the labor of education should
furnish the mind with, and fasten there,
and never cease till the young man had
a true relish for it, and placed his
strength, his glory and pleasure in it.”
Fellow Citizens doctrine of the
natural inferiority of the colored race
has long since been exploded; it has
grown too old for the intelligence of the
nineteenth century. The book of
books, teaches us from its sacred pa-
Ses, that the Lord hath of the same
esh, and the same blood, created all
the nations of the earth; all children
of the same common parents and com
ngftnded by the Author of our existence
to love one the other. TeU row, Ibou
mysterious palladium of the human heart
can man in this age of hypocrisy, blas
phemy and oppression, look upon these
burning truths and not blush, and hang
his head, to think himself a man? His
tory informs us that the sciences were
partial to the sable children o! the sun,
and made their abode among them ere
they had condescended to look upon
the rest of mankind. The father of
Grecian poetry hath sung that the Gods
deigned to be present at the feasts of
the wise and virtuous Ethiopians
The dire of gods ami all the ethereal train
On the warm limit* of die furtherert main,
Now mix with mortal, nor diadain to grace
The (cants of Ethiopia’* Matnehs» race.”
Though this is a picture of the poet’s
brain, it shows the high estimation in
which the people were held when
Egypt boasted of her 20,000 cities, her
hundred brazen towers and eternal
pyramids, I assert, and am prepared
to prove, that the Africans can boast of
more greatness than any other people
on the face of the globe, under the
same c rcumstanccs. They were the
first in wisdom and policy; the first in
astronomy and mathcmatics;thc first in
philosophy and letters. None will dis
pute that we are indebted to Africa for
the very language that wc speak: and
now, her children are the lirst in meek
ness and humility, patience and long
suffering.
Yet we are charged with being indo
lent, immoral, and unenterprising.
Why is it that enemies when speak
ing of us, invariably select some par
ticular cases of inoral depravity, and
set them up as standards of moral worth
characteristic of the whole, ascribing
natural and essential causes to things
which have but accidental existence;as
if all fallible oeings have not their por
tion of evil connected with good? This
principle, if carried out would burn our
sacred scriptures, because the world
has been deluged in blood from an im
proper use of them. It would drive
education from odr doors, because it
by contingent circumstances brought
on treason, sedition and stratagem in
States. As weH we might say that the
fair fame of the fcincinnatians must be
branded with thd odious epithet of be
ing a inobocratic and insubordinate
people, from the fact that a few lawless
ruffians.have trapipled on our laws, and
set the precepts ef our institutions at
defiance.—Why do eulogistic friends
never refer to such men as Toussaint
L, Ouverture, the colored Washington
of St Domingo, or Alexander Dumas,
the Historian of France, the scholar
and gentlemen? If these are too far
fetched, we have those among us who
are not only creditable to the U. States,
but would be so to any of the civilized
nations of the earth.
But our enemies refer to the'Hotten
tot, point to the Bushman, seek out the
brothels of vice, the inmates ol the
houses of licentiousness, the drunkard’s
hell, and the dens of thieves, and set
them up as the standards of the moral
and intellectual worth of the colored
citizens of the United States. As well
might we resort to the jails and peni
tentaries, for the moral standard of the
Anglo American character.
Unfortunate Africa!—who shall num
ber thy wTong9, or bind up thy sorrows?
When the ignorant blue eyed Saxons
gathered round their Vola and listened
to her strains of prophecy, or stalked
nomadic wanderers o’er the world, with
no covering but the skins of beasts, no
shelter but the oaken tree, little did
they think that the day would come,
when their commerce should whiten
every sea, and their colors float on ev
ery soil.
Then let us not be discouraged, bul
animated with a renewed taith.
“Heard are the voice*,
Voice'of the safes,
World and the age*,
Choose well, your choice is
Br»ef, and yet endless;
Here eye* do regard you
In eternity’ »stillue«s,
Here is all frloess
Ye brave to reward you,
Work and despair aot.”
Passports to People of Color. The
editor of the Salem Register has writ-!
ten to Mr. Clayton, Secretary of State,
for further information in relation to bis.
refusal to give pasaports to colored men.,
Mr. Clayton replies that his refusal
was wholly io accordance with the!
usage of the office, as he had been as
sured by the officers of the Department.
He accounts for the passports given to
Robert Purvis by saying that Mr. Pur
vis was at first refused a passport. Mr.
Vaux of Philadelphia then wrote, rep
resenting that Mr. Purvis was a gen
tleman, a man of property, of scarcely
perceptible African descent,and wished
to travel with his wife to Europe. A
passport was granted to him, says Mr.
Clayton, “but not as a colored man.”
But he was a colored man, for all that;
as hiehly colored as many of the South
ern slaves. As for the case of Wil
liams, Mr. Chew, an old clerk, testi
fies that the paesporiwaa given to him
under the belief that he was a white per
son What a dreadful mistake! Mr.
Chew further says that be was pass
port clerk under Mr. Forsyth, and
that it was the established rule not to
grant passports to people of color.
The Salem Register seems delighted
to get this letter from Mr. Clayton, and
thinks it a perfect justification of his
course. There can be no justification
of his course. It is an infamous out
rage. The precedents of our govern
ment have been almost universally on
the side of slavery. We thought we
were promised a change of this policy
when “Taylor and Free soil” came in
to power. But it seems that Slavery
is to hold sway for the future, because
it has in the past. Precedent would
hold Mr. Clayton to a continuance of
“Locofoco” policy generally. Does he
feel.bouod by precedent in all cases, or
only where the precedent is on the
aide of oppremioo ?—Lowell American.
CONVENTION AT MIDDI.ETON.
The Convention held at Middleton
last Sunday was attended by about four
hundred people—a majority of them in
telligent young men and women, who
will soon be called to bear the respon
sibilities of active life, and for whose
enlightenment in respect to the duty
they owe to the slave, Abolitionists
must ever feci peculiar anxiety. The
prevailing religious influence in Mid
dleton is that of Orthodox Quakerism
of the straightest sect, and it is hardly
necessary to say that it is implacably
hostile to the Anti-Slavery Movement.
The ‘blind guides’who wield this influ
ence seek, of course, to veil their hos
tility to abolitionism under the guise
of a zeal against ‘infidelity’ and sancti
monious regard for religion. Their
meeting house is hermetically sealed
against the advocates of the Slave, and
all that they could do was done to pre
vent us from getting a hearing in the
place. A grovo near the village,
which the owner would gladly have
permitted us to use, was yet denied us
in deference to parental opposition.
Our warm hearted friend, Jonathan
Marsh, very kindly welcomed us to the
shade of his beautiful wood, about
three-quarters of a[mile from the village,
where, taking an old sled lor a platform,
Isaac Trescott, Jesse Holmes and the
Editor of the Bugle, successively ad
dressed an interested and deeply atten
tive audience, some of whom were
seated upon rude benches and others
in wagons, while many were compelled
to stand. Lot Holmes presided.
A self-conceited and impertinent man
named Hick tried to win a little noto
riety by opposing and thwarting the ef
forts of those who called the meeting,
but succeeded only in making him
self ridiculous. ‘Wages slaves’ were
the objects of his special sympathy,
and whan reminded that the wrongs oi
that class were'not legitimately before
the meeting, he announced the won
derful discovery that Abolitionists were
hot opposed to slavery at all—that they
were obtaining money under false pre
tences, &.c.; and he was extremly anx
ious to meet the Editor of the Bugle in
a grand discussion of these propositions
His threats as to what he would do to
us, if he could only get us fairly within
the range of his intellectual battery,
‘were very terrible.’ —Sorry to say we
can’t accomodate him now, but if he’ll
wait till after the Jubilee, and it shall
then appear that Abolitionists have suf
fered materially from his assaults and
stand in need of defence, we may per
haps undertake the job.— Bugle.
From llie Clironnlvp*.
THE KINGDOM OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
This Kingdom came when the sover
eign States entered into this laion.—
How soon it will go, depends upon cir-j
cumstances; but it is pleasant to see it j
manifesting a disposition to be o-p-h.
Our readers will well remember that
address to the people of South Caro
lina, signed “Brutus,” which ws
copied lately. That address was writ
ten by a distinguished son of South
Carolina, formerly a slaveholder there.
Some philanthropic and unsophisticated
men at the north were willing to spend
some money to circulate it among the
white non-slaveholders ot South Caro
lina. For this purpose they requested
a gentleman of Indiana by the name of
John M. Barrett —not an abolitionist
but merely a Free Soiler—who was
about to travel through the upper part
of South Carolina, to drop into the
post offices in that rejgion some pack
ages of the aforesaid address, enclosed
to different individuals. He actually
committed that awful crime, and is bow
in Spartanburg jail for it.
The Spartan a newspaper publish
ied in that delightfully free locality,
says:
“The charge under which he is ar
rested is punishable by twelve months'
I imprisonment and one thousand dollars’
fine. But he may be indicted under
the arrrst tor any crime of which the
j Stale Attorney may think himself able,
i by competent testimony, to convict the
1 prisoner.—There is more than a possi
bllity that Barrett may be indicted for
an |offence, the penalty of which is
death, without benefit of clergy; and
assuredly, if coovicted, all the aboli
tionists in the United States cannot
save him.”
Just so, exactly. For circulating
such a document, whether he kuew
what was in it, or not, be may just as
well be hung as fined, for is not the
“Address” perfectly unanswerable?
Not a fact of it can be denied. No
paper in Sooth Carolina dare publish,
even to refute it. Calhoun Jupiter C.
has not brass nor logic enough to meet
it. Therefore it is clearly a crime,
worthy of death, to circulate it in the
Kingdom of South Carolina.
VVe do hope it will turn out that Mr.
Barrett has no nervous wife nor chil
dren dependent upon him for support
and sympathy, for it is extremely desi
rable that the South Carolinians should
haog him *o illustrate the peculiarities
of the “peculiar institution.” Hi*
death would give abundant publicity to
the Address of “Brutus,” and be >UC i
a complete refutation of its arguments!
But this is only half the beauty of
the case. Mr. l*egg, postmaster of
Spantauhurg, was vupjxjsed to have a
letter designed for Mr. Barret, not ad
dressed to him, hut which ho was au
thorized to receive, in which the
shrewd accusers of Barrett supposed
they would find evidence to convict
him of circulating “Brutus.” Mr.
Barrett declined to take the letter
from the office. His accusers sum
moned Legg tuto court as a witness,
and commanded him to bring the letter
with him. He modestly, and with hum-
Wo ayalsgifg, Jo to violate, hi*
oath of office to the United States, m
favor of the kingdom, and was conse
quently committed to jail till he should
give bonds to appear in court and bring
the letter. By advice of counsel hu
finally gaVte said bonds and was re
leased. So the royal will of the king
dom is to triumph over the oath to the
laws of the United States, and it re
mains to be seen whether Postmaster
General Collamer will be as auccvmbent
as P. M. G. Amos Kendall was. Possi
bly in these days the confederate re
public can get along without doing the
mail service of the kingdom.
FARTHER PARTICULARS OF TIIE
CHARLESTON TBACiEDY
Extract of a letter from a resident in
Charleston S. C., dated ‘Charleston,
July 22d,’ to a gentlemen in Boston:—
We have had quite an excitement
here; the inmates of the Work-House
mutinied, and.the keeper was compelled
to let them into the street for his own
safety. He notified the Mayor of the
fact, and the alarm was given. Men
ran in all directions with guns and bay
onets, pistols, swords, caws, hatchets,
&c. I could not imagine what was]
to pay. They arrested three, and had
them tried the next day, and hung on j
Friday las£*just eight days from their
trial and —There are said\
to be one hundred and fifty up the road,
part of whom are from th Work-
House; they have burnt several houses'
or plantations. Several companies'
have gone to hunt them.
Last Tuesday, ex-Governor Akin’s,
coachman was taken to jail for being,
at the head of a plot The three men
who were hung divulged the plan, and;
told the leaders.
The three rnen were hung one at a
time, and when the first was dead, he
was laid under the scaffold, and the
second brought under for his turn, and
soon the third. The scene showed a
revengeful disposition on the part ot
the people—hanging one at a time, and
allowing the other two slaves to be
spectators to the scene.
As near as I can ascertain, one of
the fellows that was hung was a mason'
by trade, and paid his master twenty
dollars a month, and at the same time!
had paid his master seven hundred
dollars in part pay for his freedom,
which his master agreed to give him
when the amount agreed upon was
paid.—wjjlus I understand, wa?$l,?00;
but his fibster put him up for sale, and
he was sffld. He refused to go with
his new master, and ran. Officers
were sent after him and he was over-,
taken; he struck onqgifthem, and I be
lieve killed him. He*was tried, and
sentenced to be hung; but his old mas
ter, Kelly, said he was deranged, and
got a new trial granted him. Ho was
put in the VVoik-Housc, to await the
trial, when he headed the insurrection, j
His name was Nicholas; the other two
George and John. There are several
more to be tried, who will probably he
hung.
INTERKSTUTC; HLAVK CAST.
A few months ago a slave, name*'
Brown, belonging to a Mr. Somerville
of Maryland, was murdered by lus
mastet. Some time after, the master
himself was murdered, and a brother
of the murdered slave was taken up
and tried for the offense. Notthc small
est evidence could be made out against
him, and he was acquitted. Acquittal
of a colored man in such a region of
the world must be held as a most con
vincing proof of his innocence. But
the relatives of the deceased sold
Brown into the desolating bondage of
the South. Ha made his escape from
New Orleans and reached Philadelphia,
where he expected to live in safety.
But the man-stealer was on his track.
Brown had a wife and seven children
in Maryland, whom be was desirous of
rescuing from bondage. He had as
sumed the name of Russell, but a cor
respondence was commenced from
Philadelphia in his real name; the let
ter reached the sieve-owners, and tbev
determined to be revenged Mill farther.
The tbievea of Maryland had no
longer any control over his body as
property, for they had made it over to
tbo thieves of New Orleans; but two
iof them appeared at Ph'tadr'phia,
claiming Brown as a murderer!! This
l is a favorite and rm.de of
seizing a victim. The applicants knew
well that they bad no ngnt to claim thr
persecuted man as a mutdercr, for he
had been tried and acquitted and
could not be tried again. Bui, if they
had him once in their posaessi >u, they
'could easily do privately what they
I could not do judicially, and, at least,
they could punish him severely for
running away, and restore him to
chains and bondage. Two blood
hounds appeared at the magistrate's
office in Philadelphia, claiming their
victim. He was clapped into prison,
but the warrant was informal, and on
that grouud he was released. Seizing
i. the favorable moment, before the to*
i'formality could be remedied, Browc
Iffi V |*t «t rawti
WHOLE NO. 8«.
made track r passing through
New qrk. Kc* dr mini;, «f that
city, kindly agrrrt: f«< the
persecuted man t rnda
W ithmjt itit- ;of n moment, they
proceeded t< M ntr* it, and laid the
case before l. u! Elgin. claiming
that protect: n which it is the glory of
the Britt-di law I give to the innocent.
Proofs of th trial nod acquittal, which,
with other particulars, had been pub
lished in pamphlet form, were laid be
fore the Governor-General, who gave,
hi* unqualified assurance that the
hunt* d man would not be surrendered
to his persecutors The appeal was
not too soon. Next day the two
bioodseekers presented themselves be
fore the Governor-General, demanding
the surrender of Brown, aiut, is al
most unnecessary to say, they met with
a pointed refusal. And now, this in
jured man. with his wife and seven
children, who had also escaped, are in
Canada, safe from the hands of the
man-stealer. Some magistrate, troni
ignorance of the facts, may give him
up on a charge of murder, although
this is not likely. However, to pre
vent it, wc have to request our con
temporaries, as au act of justice and
humanity, to hand around this note of
warning.—Let it never be said that
there is a single magistrate in the
length and breadth of British North
America so ignorant or so indifferent
as to surrender a fellow’ man into the
hands of the relentless slaveholder.—
Toronto Manner.
•♦NOTICE.
“Was committed to the jail of Wash
ington county, 1). C\, on the 10th of
May, 1949, as a runaway, a negro man
calling himself Edward Brooks. He
is of a dark color, with whiskers under
his chin, about tidily years old, five
feet six and a halfirrchcs high, has a
scar on the side o l the fore linger of his
left hand; had on when committed a
dark clotii frock coat., black bombazine
vest, striped cassiuct pantaloons, and a
fur cap. He says he is free, and was
born in this city. He says he has
been absent from this city fifteen or six
teen years, and that before he left here
he was known to Samuel Redfern,
James Eslin, Richard Butt; and in
Richmond, Y.rginia, by James Evans,
Esq., and Mr. O W. Carter, clerk in
the Bank of Virginia, and has a pass
purporting to *'u in him, stating that
he is free, at.d l a I ».-t his papers.
“The own; r o. m rs, if any, ofthc
above desen'a i ;ru man are hereby
requested toe m uaid, prove him
and take him ;r ay.
“Thomas A Hawke, for
“R. VY.vLf E, JMarshal I). C.
The forego:;;'* ftp-urn thus an adver*
tisment in the In)', i nctr. It shows
how some things iuu done in the capi
tal city of our m del Republic. A man,
claiming to he free, to wnom no per
son has setup ae! :n of ownership, is
committed as a slave ton jail, built and
supported with the moneys of the peo
ple of the United States Nay, the
presumption i strong, even in this Dis
trict, where rohr i absurdly, regard
ed a sprimu facie .a eneo of slavery,
that he is free. He refers to citizens
of this plure, a wua s in his favor,
and produces a p; i from the? cashier
ofthc Bank of Virginia, ?tating that
he is free, and has lost his papers.
Who, then, has thrown him into jail?
On what ground cun his detention be
justified r Why did not the marshall
take the trouble to ascertain from those
citizens of Washington, whether his
account of himself were correct, or
from Mr. Carter, of Virginia, whether
the paper purporting to be written by
birn was genuine, before advertising
him as a slave, and virtually inviting
a fraudulent claimant.
Meantime wc call upon the good peo
ple of the United States to note what
deeds are done bv officers holding their
commissions from the Government
they have instituted. —JValional Era.
Tut Shoe Business in Lynn gives
employment to ten thousand and fifty
eiglit persons; of whom four thousand
nine hundred and twenty-five are girls
—who hind and new the shoes and gai
ters. The number of pairs of shoes
made tne lu.st year was three mill
ion five hundred and forty thousand, at
a total cost of two millions three hun
dred and ninety two thousand five hun
dred and seventy live dollars.
Tne Br.vr 1 rh.no.— The most agree
able of all corn pant ns is a simple,frank
rnan, without any high pretensions to
an oppressive greatness; one who
gives life, and understands the use of
it; obliging alike at all hours .above all
of a gelJ* n tempt r, and steadfast as an
anchor.— l* or ‘inh a. one we gladly ex
change the gr* atest genius, the most
brilliant wit, the profoundcst thinker.—
Liming.
Gt?i Cass.—The Chicago Tribune
says: \V« understand fr*»in reliable
authority that Gcn. Cass will resign hit
seat in the Senate during the ensuing
winter. The Michigan Legislature
having instructed him to vote for the
Proviso, he j ropoac* waiting unlit that
question comes up, when be will make
a great speech against the Proviso and
Col. Benton, iu.<. tf.cn resign. Like a
iCamanche, h- wdl “fire and run.”
Cast forth thy ,:cv thy word, into the
ever living, v r-v iig universe; it
is a seed giam ti tt cm. not die Un
noticed to day -at one it will be
found flouri' rove' l
perhaps, alas, us a hemlockjßKtVfl
,ter a thousand year- CarhjU.
h lushed ()i s Ihe C anadian league
has thrown aside annexation with the
the U. State!*, and now rccotnmdsa fed
erative union of all the British Provin
ces, 
Another Abduction Case
On Thursday morning last, telegraphic dispatch, from ihat well-known frterwl *»f thf
slave. Thomas Garten, of iloi'"<ri on
Delaware, wa» received in
nouncmgthat a colored man. cameo
1...1 “‘A"
p* r h M.k rr.
or pr> per t hands nl a menilrer of
,„,V.inn” f
lhc rart/e* u|H»n thetr arrival, provided ap
>#arareen warranted such a courae. Ihe
imter ef thia. in the mean lime, Imarded the
*J,oi Crow” car al the President street da
pot, where the designated colored man wsi
*«pied in irons, accompanied by a professional
ilare-cateher from Elk ton, named McCreary
On the arnval of the train at the inner <lepot,
officer Zell, of Baltimore, joined the natty,
and escorted them to VV ilson a (laie Dono
vin'al slave pen, immediately in the rear ol
and adjoining the depot Under the cucuni
staocea, the officer holding tin above-men
tioned despatch did not feel justified in making
an arrest on the charge of k.dnappmg 1 her*
had followed on, in the cars, Geoige Martin
and Samuel Pennock. residents of the neigh
borhood from which the colored man was ab
ducted, the former of whom followed rate
the slave pen, to see the fate of the object ol
tbeir sympathy, while the other proceeded tu
procure advice and aid from citizens of Balti
more.
Mr. Marini, having, w hile among the slave
dealers, mentioned that Mitchell had lived
with him, for a tun**, as a free man, he wm
arrested on an assumpsit of debt for the hire
of a slave (r,>«>d inH ha»l was of
fered for his appearance at tire neat term ot
Baltimore county Court, but was refused by
the Sheriffs deputy, (Mr. Laws) on the pre
tended ground that the proffered sureties were
not “freeholders,” as they would say in
South Carolina —the real cause of this refusal,
doubtless, being a fear of giving offence to
the pro-slavciy feeling bv which he was stir
rounded, as usual in such cases' Mr. Marlin
was, consequently, committed to piison. It
was, no doubt, hoped by McCreary, who
had bought the colored man “running,” that
Martin would fii d himself so much of a
“stranger,” as to be glad to accede to their
own terms for a “certain sum,” on the pay
ment of which lie could depart, was hinted
to him' But they never were more mistaken.
On Friday morning, Mr. Martin found him
self surrounded by abundance of friends.
There was no difficulty in getting bail. In
deed, persons not wont heretofore to sympa
thize with the wronged under such eircura
atances, at least not openly, came forward to
volunteer bail. It was determined, however,
not to gratify them in that way. Counsel
were employed, in the persons of Folger P.
Lovegruve and V\ llliam A. Stewart, Esqrs.,
who petitioned Judge Leg rand to discharge
Martin from custody, under the provision:; ol
a law of 1846, for the protection of non-resi
dent debtors.” The petition set forth that
the piisoner, if a debtor, was liable in the
State where the indebtedness was incurred
and that he could not be held to answer be
fore the courts of Baltimore.
The case was heard on Friday morning.
A number of witnesses were present, to prove
the non-residence of Martin, among whom
were Samuel Pennock, and his brother, Mor
ton Pennock, of Kenneit Square, Penn., and
two residents of this city, who formerly Jived
in hie immediate neighborhood. Only the
first named was examined, his testimony be
ing deemed ample in the case. McCreary
was the only witness produced on the othei
aide. His testimony was very contradictory,
and went to show, among other not very re
putable tilings, that, while the suit wan
brought in the name of John Hays and wife,
of Cecil county, he was himself the actual
ownei A brief but clearly argumentative
speech from Mr. Stewart, and a long and
declamatory one from the opposition lawyer,
Henry Stump, Esq., which might well l>*
called a “stump Speech,” and the Judge’s or
dor lor Martin’s discharge terminated tin
■cine, ranch to the chagrin of McCreary, e
id gen Their lawyer’s “masterly effort,’
as no doubt they will state it, was a niosi
amusing appeal to buncom Ac, as against thr
“Abolitionists,” “fanatics,” &c.—so pecu
liarly such, tfiat I feel very anxious to see it
in print. It would afford amusement for at
least a month of holydays. Its reception by
all present, except a few of those interested
in the “peculiar institution,” ought-to be
aufficient to convince Mr. Stump ihat the cry
of “Abolitionist,” and the like, has had its
day of triumph in Baltimore, and that it it
no longer ot avail with sensible and firn
ludges, such as Mr. Legrand
Although Mr Martin was discharged Iron
custody, to the chagrin ot his persecutors a>
we have seen, the suit goes on until with
drawn by the plaintiffs This, I learn, they
are quite ready to do, being probably rather
disappointed of the game they sought, and
“sick and tired” of the chase' But, J hope
Mr Marlin, and the people of the neighbor
hood tiom which poor Mitchell was taken,
will not suffer the matter to rest here. There
has been liability to severe punishment in
curred by the slave-catchers, as the manner ol
the abduction will clearly indicate, and
the proper steps should promptly be
taken in me premises. Let me record some
of the facts, as they have come tome, from
a reliable source.
It seems Thomas Mitchell, nr the slave
Albert, as the alleged owners call him, has
been residing tor al least twelve years in
Chester county, Pa., at one time more than
eighteen miles from the residence of Mr,
Hays He has always been recognised as a
free roan, and treated accordingly. He mar
ried there, and was dwelling in apparent
security, as a husband and a lather, until
Wednesday night. Then, amidst the “black
ness ol darkness,” (an appropriate screen
for such brutality as these fiendish slave
hounds are wont to enact,) the door ol In
dwelling is battered down, a pistol, loaded
with three balls, as itself was left to tell, i
presented to the breast of his wife, to stop
her screams for help, and he is dragged forth,
almost naked, and hurried to the slave matt,
ever ojien in this city All tlns is done with
out any warrant for Mitchell's commitment,
attei they gut him into Cecil county, and in
direct violation ot the laws ot Pennsylvania.
This case his done good here, by awaking
commendable sympathy in bosoms not
aroused, hitherto, to the enormities of slave
ry, and the laws enacted for ns protection,
and by strengthening the beans and hands ot
thoae by whose exertions the above recorded
legal triumph was secured. repeat mv
hope that the friends of Justice :i „d Freedom
in Pennsylvania, may not be wanting m soim
suitable effort to brin-, further good out ul
evil. 1 have gieatly o> er estimated vhe spun
of “Old Chester,” if steps arc not promptly
tskon, not only to restore Mitchell to his
hesnstrickcn family, \'ut to vindicate thost
sal .tary laws, which the claims ot Humanity
have caused to be placed upon the slatin',
books of then Jaiate. J F. S.
Death or Mr. CiaLi*TtN.— It is but a iitt!<
while since, to announcing the decease o
Mrs. Gallatin, we gave utterance to tin
very natural suggestion that, after so long i
companionship, the strongest feeling preaen
With the survivor would be, probably, a wi*l
that he might not linger long behind. If sod
was hia wirh, as may be presumed, it ha
received its consummation the venerablegen
tlernan departed this life yesterday, havin|
neatly attained the patriarchal age of ninety
In answer to "inquiries concerning him
made only a few weeks since, we were told
that his bodily infirmities seemed scarcely tc
jncreaae, white hia intellect remained vigor
ous and acute as it was pars ago We
bad not aeen him since the Winter.
His history aa a t American citizen, diplo
matist and stataaman is so well known that
we think if rraedless to supply an outline it
h*re Almost fnm the infancy of our Re
S* he hashed a prominent port among
those by Whom its destinies were f aided tad
(Girdled Tbs occasion ~f htsdeath will be
marked, we presume, by appropriate official
ae«l general action.—.V* Y. Commercial.
From the Nations! Era
Nntloual Vtllany.
The pastor of a colored ehurch in Win
chester. Vs.. having been over-excited dur
ing a revival of religion, became temporarily
ravine. He was sent to Staunton, where a
cure was effected, and on receiving from b»
keepers a certificate that he was a Methodist
preacher, a free man, had been under treat
ment for insanity, and been cured of it, and
was then on Ins return to Winchester. Pas- j
sing through Washington, he was taken up,;
earned hefote a magistrate, a local preacher
in the Methodist Episcopal Church, and in
disregard of his certificate, was committed to
tail as a runaway slave. In due time, his
would have been sold into Slavery to pay his
jail fees, had not this citizen accidentally be
come informed of the case. He immediately
procured copies of the man's free papeis from
the Clerk of the court at Winchester, descri
bing him, &e. Taking with him another re
spectable citizen, he went to the jail, and, in
the presence of the jailut, examined the pris
oner, whom he found to answer to the des- i
eription in all points. They then procieded j
to tJie magistrate, the brother preacher stated j
the facts, showed the papers, and bore their
testimony. His answer was, that the papeis
were worth nothing; color was prima facie
evidence of Sltfpry; and he could not dis
charge him unless competent witnesses
should be able to swesr that the prisoner was
I ilie man whom the papers desrrihwd as free, i
They indignantly left him, brought the pris
oner before Jndge Cranch, on a writ of habeas j
corpus, and the Judge, as might have been j
expected in one who understood Law' and
Justice, on examining the papers instantly
ordered his discharge. The Judge,we believe 1
never graduated as a local preacher?
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, SEPTEMBER 7, 1849.
J _ _
To optaiti Thomas Auld, formerly my
.Master.
No. 4 Alexander-st., Rochester,
September 3d, 1849. j
Dear Sir —I propose to celebrate this, the j
11th anniversary of my escape from your do- j
minion, by addressing to you a friendly epistle
on the subject of slavery.

I do this partly with a view to the fulfilment!
I of a promise 1 made you on this day one yeat j
ago, and partly to neutralize certain charges
which I tlien brought against you.
Ungrateful and unjust as you, perhaps,
deem me. i should despise myself if I could 1
wilfully malign even of a slave
holder; and if, at aiiy time, I have appeared
to you guilty of such conduct, you have
greatly misapprehended me. I say, with
a clear conscience, in all that iSkove evet
written or spoken respecting youfim, I have
tried to remember that, though 1 am beyond
your power and control, I am still accountable
to our common Father and Judge,—in the
sight of whom I believe that I stand acquitted
of all intentional misrepresentation against
you. Of course, 1 have said many hard
things respecting yourself; hut all has been
based upon what I knew of you at the time I
was a slave in your family. Of the past,
therefore, I have nothing to take back; but
information concerning you and your house
hold, lately received, makes U unjust and un
-1 kind for me to continue the style of remark,
in regard to your character, which I primarily
adopted. I have l>een told by a person inti
mately acquainted with your affairs, and upon
whose word I can rely, that you have ceased
1 to be a slaveholder, and have emancipated all
i your slaves, except tny poor old grandmother,
who is now too old to sustain herself in free
dom and that you have taken her from the
desolate hut in which she formerly lived, into
your own kitchen, and are now providing for
her in a manner becoming a man and a Chris
tian.
This, sir, is indeed good news; undgflS all
the more gratifying to me, since it derives
the pro-slavery public of the North of what
they deem a powerful argument against me,
and the abolitionists gmierally. It proves
that the agitation of Jp j subject of slavery
does not hinder, if it does not help, the eman
eipation of slaves at the South. I have been
frequently told that my course would have an
unfavorable influence upon the condition of
my friends and relatives in your possession;
and the common argument against abolitionists
may he stated as follows: Let slaveholders
alone, and they will emancipate their slaves; j
j and tha* agitation only retards the progress of
the slave’s liberation. It is alleged that the
slaveholder is induced to clutch more firmly
j what is attempted to be wrested from him.
To this argument your case is a plain contra-
I diction. If the effect of anti-slavery agitation
were such as is thus alleged, you would have
been among the first to have experienced it;
for few slaveholders in this land have had a
larger share of public exposure and denuncia
tion than yourse ,f and this, too, from a quar
ter most calculated to annoy, and to provoke
resentment. All this, however, has not pre-
I vented you from nobly discharging the high
duty you owed alike to God and to the slaves
in your possession. I congratulaie you warm
ly, and 1 rejoice most sincerely, that you have
been able, against all the suggestions of self
interest, of pride, and of Jove of power, to
perlojm this act of pure justice and humanity.
I R has greatly increased my faith in man, and
jin the Intent virtue even of slaveholders. I
j say latent virtue, not because 1 think slave
holders an* worse than all oilier men. but
because, such are the power and influence of
education and habit upon even the bestconsti- j
tuted minds, that they paralyze and disorder,
'if not destroy their moral energy: and of all
persons in the world, slaveholders are in the
most unfavorable position for retaining their
power It would be easy for roe to give vou
*he reason of this, but you may be presumed!
to know u already
Born and brought up m the presence and
under tin* influence of a rystem which at
once strikes at the very foundation of morals,
jby denying— if DO t the existence of God—the
I e 9 ual brotherhood of mankind, by degrading'
one pan of hc lonian family to the condition;
b«utes, and by reversing all right ideas of
j JUS ,<V i,id of brotherly kindness, it is almost
H'lpoasible that one «o environed can greatly j
j gf‘» w it* virtuous reeiitudc.
\a», however, sar, have risen superior to
these unhallowed influences, a „d have added
another sinking proof to those already exist
ing, ihat the heart of the slaveholder i» still
within the reach of the truth, and that to
preach to him the duty of letting the op
pressed go free,” is not in vain
I /hall no longer regard yon as an enemy
to freedom, noT to mysetf— but shall hail you
as a friend to both. Before doing a®, How
ever, l have one reasonable reqoest to make
of you, with which you will, I hope, comply
It Is this That vou make your conversioc to
anti-slaTery known to the world, by precept
as well as by example. A publication of the
facts relating to the emancipation of your
slaves, w ith the icaauna that have led you to
this humane act, would doubtless prove highly
beneficial to the cause of freedom generally
at the same lime that it would place yourself
in that high estimation of the public mind to
which your generous conduct justly entitles
you. I think yon have no right to pat your
candle under a bushel. Your case is different
in many respects from that of most repentant
slaveholders. You hiYe been publicly at.d
peculiarly exposed before the world for being
a slaveholder; and, since you have ceased to
be such, a just regard for your own standing
among men, as well as a desire to promote
the happiness of a deeply injured people, re
quire you to make known your sentiments on
this important subject. It would be truly an
interesting and a glorious spectacle to see
master and slave, hand in band, laboring to
gether for the overthrow of American slavery.
I am sore that such an example would tell
with thrilling effect upon the public mind of
ibis section. We have already had the exam-,
pie of slaves and slaveholders, side by side,
battling for freedom, but we yet lack a roaster
working by the side of his former slave on the
anti-slavery platform. You have it in your
power to supply this deficiency; and if you
can biiog yourself to do so, you w ill attain a
larger degree of happiness for yourself, and
will confer a greater blessing on the cause ot
freedom than that you have already done by
the generous act of emancipating your own
slaves. With the example before me, I shall
not despair of yet having the pleasure of giv
ing you the right hand of fellowship on the
anti-slavery platform.
Before closing the present letter, I wish to
set you right about a matter which is, perhaps,
of small importance to yourself, but is of con
siderable consequence to me.
In your letter, written three years ago, to
Mr. A. C. C. Thompson, of Wilmington, te
speoiing the validity of my nartative, you
complained that 1 failed to mention your inten
tion to emancipate me at the age of 95. The
reason of this failure is as follows: You will
remember that your promise to emancipate me
preceded my first attempt to escape; and that
you then told me that you would have emanci
pated me, had I n>t made the attempt in
question. If you ask me why I distrusted
your promise in the first instance, I could give
you many reasons; but the one that weighed
most with we w*as the passage of a law in
Maryland, throwing obstructions in the way
of emancipation; and I had heard you refer to
that law as an excuse for continuing yout
slaves in bondage; and, supposing the ob
structions alluded to might prove insuperable
barriers to my freedom, I resolved upon flight,
as the only alternative left me short of a life of
slavery. I hope that this explanation will be
satisfactory. I do not regret what I have
done—but rather rejoice in it, as well for youi
sake as mine. Nevertheless, I wish to be
fairly understood, and have, therefore, onade
the explanation.
I shall here conclude ibis letter by again
expressing my sincere gratitude at the mag
nanimous deed with w hich your name is now
associated—and by repeating the ardent hope
that you will publicly .Jentify yourself with
the holy cause of freedom, to which, since I
left your service, I have been most unremit
tingly devoting myself.
1 am, Dear Sir,
Very respectfully yours,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Rev. Henry Highland Garnet,
A letter from this gentleman may be found
in another column of this week’s paper. The
only answer to it we deem it necessary to
make is to republish the article to which it
purports to be a reply. Our readers can judge,
as well as we, how far Mr. Garnet has vindi
cated his position, and how much better is his
spirit than ours. All that he says about his
espousal of the Free Produce cause only con
firms the truth of our statement on that point.
He has humbly commenced practising it.”
We said he was a practical man” His es
pousal of the Free Produce cause will be quite
news to all, we think, who know him. As
to what he says about moral u e ms—he has
too often (in Zion Chnrch, New York, and
elsewhere) taught the doctrine that no people
ever have nor ever can gain their freedom
without fighting for it, even to make a reply,
on this point, necessary for us. But, there is
Mr. Garnet’s letter, a r »d the article to which
it purports to reply. Read and judge. f. d.
The Lynu Pioneer A Herald of Freedom.
This spirited journal is no more. Its editor,
Mr. Bradburn, has a long valedictory address
to his readi-rs, in which he details the causes
of its discontinuance. The first reason given
is, that its work is plainly done —but the
most impottant reason, we think is the lack of
pecuniary support extended to it. It is diffi
cult to decide whether to moutn or to rejoice
over this result, as the good and the evil pro
duced by the paper so nearly poised each
other. It has long been a pecuniary burden
to its publisher; and on his account, if on no
other, we are inclined to rest satisfied in its
death. In its earlier days it was warmly de
voted to the anti-slavery cause, and would
not have stooped to defend apostacy to that
cause in any quarter. We wish we could
say that its last days were its best, or even
as good 3s its first.—r. d.
From Bahia—The Slav* Trade.—The
bug Boston arrived at this port this (Monday)
morning from Bahia, July 26th. Trade was
very dull at Bahts, one reason for which is
stated to tie the capture of several slavers with
full cargoes of negroes, by the British crui
sers. Four vessels had been thus captured
by them within a short time previous to the
sailing of the Boston. The horrible trade is
still prosecuted with considerable briskness.
Four vessels, undoubtedly slavers, had sailed
from Babia for the Coast of Africa within two
or three months, and five or six more were
fitting out A dreadful affair took place near
Bahia, of which we have before had some ac
count. A slaver pursued by a British Crui
ser, took refuge in shoal water near tbeeoast.
Here she went ashore, when the captain and
most of the slave* (about two hundred in num
ber) were drowned.— Traveller.
The British West ladies. -The Workiag
of EaMtaeipatioa.
ft is um that we do oot ronsiJer of very
greet impotUnce the arguments that are con
tinually being advanced against emancipa
tion oo the ground that it has oot worked well
ui those pferes where if has been tried. It
is not with us a question of very vital import,
1 whether or not the planters can realize aa
large a profit from free, aa from slave labor.
We are very well satisfied of the fact, tha*
if a law were enacted in these United States,
authorising certain persons to steal, they
would by that means secure for themselves a
much more comfortable livelihood than they
possib’y could by any honest calling Ins
an easy matter to steal by law, provided one’s
i own sense of moral rectitude is not above law.;
He must be a fool or worse who cannot con
trive to fill his pockets out of the labor of oth-
I ers, if be has the law and the army at hie
beck, to assist m the ctrcmiesnn of the
robbery. But with all this it is gratifying to
learn, that when the measure of emancipation
is fully carried out, the planter as well as the
laoorer will not be injured, but benefited by
the change. In proof of this we refer our
readets to the following extracts from Jamaica
papers. It will be seen that ev en although it
is in some instances suspected that the cap
italists of the West Indies are suffering by
the competition of stolen labor, none of them
once hint at the possibility of returning to
slavery, as a remedy.
The New York Courier "and Enquirer
gives a repoit af a meeting held in Spanish
Town ou the 24th of May, 1849, of the in
habitants of Jamaica, for the purpose of con
sidering the effect produced by the .Von ob
servance of the treaties for the suftpression of
the slave trade. From the speeches on that
occasion we cull the following extracts.
The Lord Bishop, President of the meet
ing said—
“lt must, I think, be readily admitted,
that the great and predominant evil under
which Jamaica, in common with the other
West India Islands, is at present suffering,
arises from the projected ad niision ol the
produce of slave labor into the markets of
Gieai Britain and her dependencies, without
the discriminating and protective duty which
bad heretofore been allowed to operate in fa
vor of the free-bom or freemade cultivator of
the soil. Our plain and single object is to
press upon our rulers, the justice and
the necessity of compelling the States of
Spain and Brazil to a fair and full compliance
with the treaties by which they are solemnly
bound to her Britannic Majesty;treaties which
had, and have, for their express object, the
extinction of the heaviest curse that ever fell
upon mankind—the suppression of the unhu
man traffic in slaves, with all its hideous and
murderous incidents, and th gradual aboli
tion of slavery throughout every portion of
the civilized world.
The A ice Chancellor followed in a similar
strain, urging that the British nation had the
remedy for the evils under which the colo
nies suffer**, in its own hand,
Mr. GedOes stated that one half of the
persons held in slavery in Cuba at this mo
ment, are s« held in violation of existing trea
ties between England and Spain.
The Ma yor of Kingston asserted that the
system under which Slave-grown sugar is ad
mitted into the British markets has ruined the
agricultural interests of the island.
The Rev. Dr. S. H. Stewart said.—
“Estate after estate has been thrown out of
cultivation, and the only cheering reflection
ia, that thia baa arisen out of the abolition of
Slavery, an act which God approves, ;br»d in
which all religious men must rejoice. But,
my Lord, it is not necessarily so, for if justice
UTre done to the British Colonies, if Great
Britain did justice to herself, prosperity would
again dawn.”
Mr. George W. Gordon expressed hia
surprise that none of the speakers had UTged
the measure on the ground of humanity, fiut
that all their arguments were confined to the
effect that Slavery had upon our own inter
ests; he declared that though deeply involved,
connected as he was with sugar estates, that
would not be the inducing cause for him to ad
vocate this measure, but he did so on the
principles of .humanity.
i The following, among other resolutions,
were agortd to
1. That as long as the sugar planters of
i Cuba, Porto Rico, and Brazil, in defiance of
the laws of their respective countries and of
;the treaties by which ine Spanish and Brazil
ian Governments stand bound to her Majesty,
are permitted to reinforce, by fresh drains from
1 Slavery, the means of theii profits, it is hope
less in countries so thinly populated as Jamai
ca, Guiana, and Trinidad, for the proprietors
of the soil to persevere in its cultivation.”
2. That in the opinion of this Meeting the
plan which was embodied hy her Majesty’*
Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Af-
I fairs, in the draft of a convention with Spain,
and transmitted to her Majesty’s Minister at
Madml on the 25th of May, 1840, as appears
from papers on Slave Trade, presented in that
year to Parliament by her Majesty’s command
is practical and leasible, and if now urged on
the Spanish and Brazilian Governments with'
suitable energy, would prove beneficial and j
effective in enabling the emancipated Colonies
of Great Britain to meet and overcome the
I competition in the home markets and othei
countries in Europe, on the equal terms to
which they are about to be exposed by the
Sugar Duties Act of 1846.”
In the Middle District (say 9 the Mercury)
we are told labor continues exceedingly
scarce, as the laborers embrace the repeated
opportunities of wet days to cultivate and
plant then own lands, and owing to the rain
j we have had, the work of the estates would
rather employ an increased than a diminished
number of hands.”
I Meetings have been held in the island of
Antigua, on the same subject. At a meeting
1 held at Clarendon, Mi. C. Hall said—
The produce raised by slave labor gov
ernment has suffered to be sold in our mar
kets; the honest man is thus compelled to
compete with the thief, and therefore it is
that we are in our present distressed condi
tion.”
Mr. Osborn said—
The produce of slavery is admitted freely
into England, to the disadvantage of the
free produf-er. There can be no doubt that
sugar made by men wbo are compelled to
work sixteen hours in the day, like cattle, can
be sold at a cheaper rate than by the planter
who cannot obtain labor for mote than six or
eight hours.”
Mr. Bbistowe said that Great Britain had
the power to enforce the observance of the
treaties, and in mercy to mankind, and to jun
to her own Colonists, she waa bound to exer
cise that power. Emancipation had been in
some degree rendered nugatory by the non
observance of the treaties. Happily for the
people of thia island, («ud Mr. B.) the great
act ot emancipation put a atop to cumpulsory
labor, but it is oot jmt tfi a t compulsory
laboi ol countless numbers in foreign states
should be brought into open competition with
the labor of freemen. t due lhe grw||
name of the British nation, that tire accursed
system should be put down.
At Clarendon, the following important reso
lution waa adopted
Thai the .Innate snd sod of tk»* s l***d
are ffeorabto for tbe product** of sugar
•ud coffee as tboae of soy other country and
that its tohabitaats are quite prepared for
eonipetigoo in the markets of the world with
the natives of Caha and the Brazils, provided
that the stipulations of the treaties made be
tween those countries and Great Britain were
as faithfully ebsenred bv them as thetr always
have been by the subieet* of ber Britannic
Majesty/’
At a meeting held at Kingston, Jamaica,
Jane 25th, it was resolved that there was not
in the laJhods one in ten thousand who DE
SIRED TO PROFIT THROUGH THE
re-establishment of slavery.
At this meeting Mr, Jordan objected to the
idea that alnre labor is cheaper than free, and
argued—
The advantage of the slave owner was,
that he had the labor when he wanted it and
could apoly it as he pleased. The cost of
slave la*. »r was not to be estimated simply by
the amount paid for the slave and lor his main*
tenance Jhd clothing. TWe waa the expense
of the military establishment, necessary to
uphold the system. The natural tendency in
man was to desire freedom, and the slaves of
i Cuba would very soon burst asqnder the bonds
that bound them, but for the large standing
army which Spam kept up. Add the cost of
that army to the other expenses, and slave la
bor woui4 be found to be dearer than free.”
Mr. Ma£Fayden\ after describing the trea
ties entered into with Grent Britain for the
suppression of the slave-trade, expressed hts
conviction that were th -se treaties enforced,
the planters of Jamaica could successfully
compete with the slave-owners of any country.
The Jamaica Morning Journal, of July
27th, says
There can be no doubt, that to have per
sisted in upholding the system of Slavery in
the West India Colonies, would have been to
persist in exposing them to great peril,—and
that the change in the social condition of these
dependencies, was dictated by motives of pru
dence as well as of humanity. The change
HAS BEEN HIGHLY BENEFICIAL TO THE MASS OF
the community, however injurious or ruinous
it might have proved to some of the proprie
tary body.” “With the settlement of that
question, (Slavery) the proprietors generally,
and the slave population unanimously, weie
contented.”
These are aU statements made by men on
the spot who are able to form, and have the
opportunity of forming an intelligent opinion
on the working of the free labor system and
as such are highly important, giving the lie,
as they so directly do, to the oft repeated as
sertions of slavery’s minions in this country.
There is not, of course, on the mind of any
real friend of humanity, the smallest shade of
a doubt, as to whether freedom or slavery i 3
best for the slave. They know that slavery
is wrong, and its fruits must necessarily be
evil. But to those who are influenced by
lower motives, the sentiments recorded above
will afford some light and encouragement.
The movement seems to be very general
throughout the Islands, and will at a very
early day, aided as it is by the friends of fiee
dom in England, command the earnest atten
tion of the British Government.
There is reason to believe that this agita
tion has hastened, if it has not led to the re
cently discovered scheme for the annexation
of Cuba. Britain has resolved to put an end
to the African slave trade, and it will be done.
The opinion has become settled in the minds
of the British public that the only remedy for
that monstrous atrocity is to be found in tbe
abolition of slavery in the We*» Indies, and
America. Her flist effort to that end will of
course be the enforcement of her treaty with
Spain, and the consequent liberation of the
slaves now held in Cuba, in contravention of
that treaty. When that is done, Cuba will
be of no value to the slave power of this coun
try. Therefore the importance of the imme
diate annexation of that island to the United
States. Let the friends of the slave in this
country and in Europe, be on the alert, and
the crafty will be caught in their own snare.
—J. D.
What the Church might do, if it
would. —There never has existed, and theie
I never can exist, either an administration or a
political party that would dare trifle with the
uttered sentiments of the men of principle in
the United States. Were such an act done
once, there would be temptatation to repeat
the insult. If you ask me why it is, then,
that public wrongs are so frequently done, and
the doers of them held scatheless, I answer,
it is because those sentiments are not uttered.
There exists among us a fear of avowing
l our moral sentiments upon political questions,
which seems to mo as servile as it is unac
countable. It envelops society like a poisoned
atmosphere. It is invisible and intangible;
but every virtuous sentiment that breathes it
grows torpid, loses consciousness, gasps feebly
and dies. To this result every man contri
butes who withholds the expression of his
honest indignation on every occasion of public
wrong-doing.
We find the above extract from Dr. Way
land in a late number of the Oberlin Evan
gelist. We are glad to see that religious
organ becoming the medium, even at second
hand, of such sound dud liberal views. Papers
—and more especially those that profess to be
actuated by Christian principle, ought to be
the leaders of public sentiment—not as they
too generally are, the panders to, and apolo
gists for a low public morality. When will
our teachers learn the vast importance and
responsibility of the office they assume l A
man, in tbe position of a teacher, whether as
a minister, lecturer, or editor, who is influ
enced only by the principle of self-interest arid
gain, is infinit -ly more mischievous, and de
serving of being put under restraint, than a
thief, housebreaker, or eTen a murderer. Tbe
thief can rob but a few of some paltry dollars;
the housebreaker can take possession of only
the value of few more; the murderer can
take away at the worst, when not utterly in
sane, only one or two lives; but tbe teacher
of low moral principle, poisons the very sources
of religious life. By his position and influence,
he has the ability and opportunity to make
thieves, housebreakers, and murderers. What
a fearful revelation it would be to some, even
professing to be Christian teachers, could they
know bow much ihey had done by their chill
ing, heart-freezing sophisms, to check ihe
generous sympathies of the young, and to
prepare mental soil, by their low cant and
hypocrisy, for a plentiful growth of unprinci
pled deceit, fraud, falsehood, aod villainy
j. d.
P«m! Fain! Fain!
The ladies and friends of the Western New
oik Anu Slavery Soeiety intend to bold a
Fair at V ictor, on Saturday, the ftth of Sep
tember, at which a large assortment of elegant
w»d useful articles will be presented—(he
majority of which were made in Eoglaod,
Ireland, and Scotland. The friends of the
dare are earnestly invited to attend.
Tbe refreshment tables will be amply pro
vided with detieoetos, including ice-cream ami
lemonade.
FfCDCRiCX Do VO LAMB will bold S» *ol*
slavery meeting at Victor on previous
evening, Friday, September th, at sever
o’clock.
There will also be an Aeti-Slavery Fair
held at East Bloomfield on Monday, Sep
tember 10, which will be preceded by an
anti-slavery meeting on Sunday, the 9th inst
The energetic co-operation of the anti-sla
very friends in these towns is earnestly soli
cited.
THE MIIOUL LEWIE.
Meeting for tbe Organization of tbe Na
tional League.
Philadelphia, Aug. 31, 1849.
Pursuant to notice extensively circulated, a
large and enthusiastic meeting was held in
Brick Wesley Church, Lombard-street, On
Thursday evening, the 30th ult. Mr. David
B. Bonser was called to the chair, and Doct.
Pick elected as secretary.
The consideration of an article in the North
Star, bearing the caption of The Union of
the Oppressed for the sake of Freedom,” was
declared to he the legitimate business tor
which the meeting was called; and the art icle
was ordered to be read. After the reading of
the article by the secretary, C. L. Remond,
Esq., was loudly called for by the audience,
but declined speaking at that stage of the
meeting, because he conceived it to be the
province of some one or more of the citizens
of Philadelphia to lead off.
Mr. George W. Goines then arose and
spoke in favor of the call and Mr. Douglass’
proposition and was followed by Mr. John
Williams in a practical speech, with all his
usual amount of pith and humor.
Mr. James Randolph, of Albany, being in
the house, was called upon, and, after making
a few preliminary remaiks, begged an excuse
on the ground of being a non-resident of the
city.
Mr. Remond then took the stand and spoke i
at some length, and in an unusually eloquent
manner, showing the necessity of union among
us, and urging a concentration of action as
essential and absolutely necessary to pr igress
After Mr. R. had concluded, a motion was j
made and adopted, that a committee of five be
appointed to report a preamble and constitu
tion forming a National League.
J. J. G. Bias, Geo. W. Goines, Jno. C.
Bowers, Jno. V. Burr, and C. L. Remond,
were appointed as the committee, with in
structions to report on the following Thursday
evening. After which, the meeting adjourned.
D. B. BONSER, Pres’t
D. J. Peck, Secretary.
Buffalo, N. Y. lug. 30, 1849.
Mr. Editor: l was highly pleased to
ree in the North Star of the 10th, your plan
lor a National League. The necessity of such
an organization, to draw out and embody the
moral and intellectual power of the colored
people of this country, is too obvious to need
i argument. Through the medium of such an
organization we can manifest to the people
of this country, that we have sufficient capa
city to understand and appreciate our rights,
and n e ability and spirit to maintain them.
The general outline of vow plan I think
unexceptionable, with the exception of the
7th Article, relating to the time and place of
holding the annual meetings. If a permanent
place is to be appointed, it shsuld be mors
central; certainly not farther east than Buf
falo or Rochester. It is evident that it would
be as unjust to the western people to select
New York or Philadelphia, as it would be to
the eastern people to chose Chicago or Cin
cinnati. With regard to the time, I think
the first of August the beet period that could
possibly be selected, for several reasons. The
I latter part of July, and the first of Auguat is
considered the dullest period of the whole
season, fur all kinds of business except farm
ing so that of course, the mnjunty of per
sons could attend with leas inconvenience
then, than at any other time and no day
could be selected more appropriate for an
oppressed and outraged people to assemble j
and devise plans for obtaining their just rights,
and elevating their moral and intellectual
character, than that on which nearly a million
of their brethren were raised from a state of
cbattlebood to the full enjoyment of the rights
and privi eges of freemen. The’annual cele
bration of West I d a Emancipation fur 1850
has been appointed at Buffalo, and will
probably be attended by Jatge numbers and
I would suggest the propriety of calling a
convention for tbe purpose of organizing the
League, at the same time and place.
Yours for Union and Freedom.
J. W. WHITFIELD.
Albany, September 3, 1849.
Frederick Douglass Dear Sir: 1 am
pleased with your suggestion of forming a
National League of colored people,
and I meant to have made known to you my
thoughts upon it for two weeks gone, but
failed doing so for want of convenience to
i commit them to paper. However, I hope you
will not construe my tarames* into a feeling of
indifference, for that ib not my caw. 1 have
j long since learned that the chief hindrance to
success, in our various undertakings to better
oar condition, ia, the divisions that exist
I amongst ua, as a whole; and have held my
self ready when anythiog feasible should be
offered as a remedy, to take hold and be one
to aid in carrying it into operation.
The questions, How are we to heal our
diviiionst” What are we to unite upon*’*
have not been satisfactorily answered. Some
looked for one thing, tome another, and yet
j nothing definite ia acted upon.
What we laek ia, not having a plan for
general action, agreed upon, and well under
stood m every locality where lives a colored
peisoo. This we want, and must have, if we
hope to work effectively. Perhaps something
upon the plan of the Irish Repeal Associa
tion might do, or let os have any system for
the suatatoiog of which we can be induced to
lay aside local and private interests—all sec
liooai jealousies, and be enabled thereby to
bring into lively aetivity the energies of the
enure people, directing them the course
which will best accomplish the ends desired
The work, to my mind, appears to be of
magnitude—yet it is possible to bring it out;
but <melf most expect to perform the lar
ge* e. All will naturally direct their
o you you have suggested a plan,
and will be depended upon to do mo-t towird*
P®rie«Ming it.
j I hope ibat ilon ij ihe we mm
>eity will get aeaiett.ing in a tangible »happ
a meeting, bearing uj*m tin# subject
which, when Accomplished, will he forwarded
jki you for consideration, a c
Yours, as ever.
WM H TOpp
j
iurrtsbi re, Aug. j* j,j.,
i Frederhr Docolas* Having Ob
j served hi the “North of U gu lrt|fc
a Constitution which you hare yetted u,
the public, for the purp**e o f forming j
uonai League” among that potion of mbabi
tants who are oppressed m this country, r j
having examined the same, I think it adrtm*
blv adapted for the object at which it a ms
and, I have not the least doubt, if u 19
rally adopted by the oppressed of tin*
country, it will contribute to hasten the da\
when public scnlimerit m regard to slaver?
aod prejudice hall be revolutionized, whet
those heathenish landmark* of ea«t (hall be
'bioted out, and when America in deed and
.1 in word wball be a land f Libcitv
Your motto “The l nion of the oppressed
;for the sake of Liberty,” is a glorious one
one, that should attract the attention and meet
~ihe approbation of tf.e oppr ss.-d m this an ,j
one that should hr kept in ,j, e
j breeze, until universal liberty and equality
j shall be brazed on ihedton and outposts ot
this nation.
The time has now arrived, uhm the op
pressed of this land should iak s more COf|
apicuous position They shoo’d centre vheu
influence more on the dead level of Überij
,to make their appeals effectual on the public
1 mind.
I shall, therefore. Sir, at iho eaiiiest penod
(lay your‘Constitution’before a public meet
ring of the citizens of this place.
Very respectfully yours,
JOHN N. COLE
‘"Calling inm out,” and he Comes.
Mr. Douglas* —ln.thc last number of the
North Star, you ofTer me an opportunity, to
J speak for myself, through the same medium
through which you have slandered and tra
jduced me 1 thank you for it, and at the
.same time 1 assure you, that whenever you
lay asside low and vulgar personalities, and
i rae ou as 3 gentleman, l will answer, and
not otherwise. I had two reasons lor not
resorting to youi paper in order to mak<* a re
ply. Firs*, because 1 addressed a letter to
you last winter lor publication, expressive
i°* m y gratitude to some of my anti-slavery
friends in Penn Van, and vou did not sutler it
|to see the light, because it contained some
.views which were unpalatable to you And
in the second place, because I thought it un
likely that after having wilfully misrcpre~:pn
ted me, you could not even “for a pre
tence” show so much liberality
Y'»u heard ihat my friends, and the friends
of universal freedom in England, had invited
me to visit that country, and immediately you
became very much alarmed, and your friends
also. The reason for this trouble of mind on
your part 1 have not been able to determine,
unless it is, that you have the spirit of the
Old Roman, and believe that “tho world was
made for Caesar.’ You did not even want
i to know whether I wasgoing to that country,
before you labored like a Hurcules to black
en my character in the eyes of a people who
may never *ee me. I knew sir, that in your
hot pursuit alter a worthless, and a transient
fame, you would sometimes stoop to mean
things, but 1 never dream .d that you would
ever sink so low, that you would have to
reach up, standing on tip-toe, to find that
j °f meanness where common knaves are
inclined to pause. Ah, sir, the green-eyed
.monster has made you mad. Pardon me,
j w ,en J te *l you that you never imbibed a
spirit so narrow from any dark son of our na
tive Maryland, living or dead. But why
should I marvel When did you ever mam
fest friendship to any colored main who dif
fered with you in sentiment You deign not
to mention ihe name of the noble Alexander
Crummel!; you have stabbed at J W. C
Pennington you have trie 1 to ruin that elo
quent fugitive Henry Bibb; and you havo
vainly attempted to crush that intellectual
giant Samuel R. Ward. But you are at
home in the company ol Thomas Van Rens
selaer, editor of the Ram’s Horn, whom you
have accused of falsehood. What think, you
of the old adage, Show me a man’s company,
and 1 will tell you what he is
In your assassin-like article, which you de
sired to take effect in England, you say that
lama man,and may stand among my brethren.
—Why was all that necessary 1 Why raise
a mortal to the sky 1 You taik of my race.
piay sir, how many races of men are there'
Certainly if you do not belong to rny rare
you must belong to that of Hainan
You make four charges against me, everv
one if which is generally and particularly
false and you knew them to lie such when
you made them.
1. You say that I goto England to adru
cate a cause abroad which I ha\ out espoused
at horn:—the Free Produce cause. Tois i*
untrue in two particulars. Igo not tor that
purpose alone—l ain requested to adi«cau
the cause of freedom generally. I an a
friend of Free Produce, and have humbly
commenced practicing it.
2. You publish that I have no faith tfcte
use of moral means for the extinction ol
American .Slavery. htlux* with ell my
heart in such mean v —and 1 Uhu iha> political
pouer ought to be used for that end, and lrun
when rightly used it is sti <rtly moral. I also
believe that the slave has a moi d right to
use hi* physical power to obtain his hbertv
—my Motto is, give me liberty, or gin me
death. Haro you, Frederick Douglas*., sav
I otherwise 1 Speak plainly—l am “calling
you out.”
3. You accuse me ot being >oui enemy. I
am not. I stand in that relatiou iu no uian
You bate me because I tell you ilw? troth
I May you seek speedy repentance.
4. You, and the Aim-Slavery Bugiu, sav
that I will misrepresent you in England M*
iheme in ilia! laud will b* ol better area, and
b**tu*i principles than you, or tlowe which
you powuese Will the Bugle please publish
this totter, and send me ito* paper, and I will
send bun a years subscription
Some two months ago or more, Mi U uU d
lass challenged a»e, in connexion with Maid,
and Bibb, to discuss tbe mallei upon ab*'* l
we differed in New York in May last. Ihut vou became frightened at the
mfr€ “shaking of my gooae quill.” V r <m
h' wIM You affirmed that
the protect to give the slaves the Bible, it uo
vroithv of the attention of philanthropists,
j JuFflnt tr.mi vou entirely.
Your servant,
jHKNtn HIGHLAND GARNET.
prriaio'... Aug. 31.
Ret. Henry Highland Gurnet.
Th individual, we undcnMaod, i* to leave
the 1 States for England during the ap
proaching autumn, The particular object ol
f,js mission to that country, i' not positively
known —but from the well known vi«we ol
the party by whom ho ha* l»een invited and
to whom ho is to be supported while there, ii
it probable, that he goes out as the 'hampion
iif the “Free Produce Cause. Mr. Garnet
i* a man of talents and address. As aspeak
tt he ranks deservedly amongst the first and
nH,st eloquent of his race, rn this country. To
tn Kugliah audience, he will doubtless prove
s m ost acceptable speaker, and will excite
m lC h interest wherever he may go. lit*
omp’cxion will be a help, rather than a hin
drance to his success. He will find that the
warm right hand of human brotherhood wiP
extender! as freely to him in old England,
w any other man—of whatever color,
i>r c itne. He w ill look around in vain
>w)n g thr crowds of w hitc persons whom he
mar nseet to observe a single averted eye, or
the slightest manifestation ol the biller and
inal.gnant hatred wuh which the colored man
haunted in this boasted land of liberty. He
w.l! find to his entire satisfaction that color is
no crime in England. We predict therefore
that personally the visit of Mr. Garnet to Eng
land will be a vwy pleasant one.
As to the actual good that the cause of the
ave w jli receive from his labor in that coun
try doubt may be very innoeentiy entertained.
On ilus point, duty requires us to be plain,and
.vhiif «e would neither detract from the tal
ents nor the zeal of Mr. Garnet, but freely
give him the full benefit ol our testimony to
l<ot h—- we deem it due to out selves, as a
mend to the cause of Emancipation, and the
elevation of the oppressed—as well as to the
fair dealing, to give the public on either side
of the Atlantic, in ihe most explicit manner,
our views of the man and his mission. In the
tint place, Mr. Garnet has again and again
oechred that he has no faith in moral means
i the overthrow of American Slavery.
..at h.s hope for success is in the sword.
He l.as held up moral suasion repeatedly, to
>t s orn and contempt of the colored people
L..i presence, and made many speeches in’
iuvor of insurrection among the slaves; and
,-5e sentiments have never to our knowledge
ten recalled nor repented of. .Yow r for such
man to appeal to the moral sense of Eng
land, and ask the moral aid of E ngland for the
jjolition of slavery, is the veriest hypocrisy
aid hollowness. The man whose convictions
do not go with his words, is not fit to plead
ilus cause—and his eloquence will merely he
sound and fury signifying nothing.
Another reason which leads us to suspeet no
nuod from the visit of Mr. Garnet to England
—is, that he goes there to espouse a cause,
which we believe lie has never advocated here
either by precept orby example. Now a man
wiio will advocate a cause abroad with res
pect to w hich lie is silent at home, docs not
j»ive the best evidence of sincerity, and leaves
the impression that his motives are at least
questionable. When and where has Mr. Gar
net written or spoken a word in this country
in favor ol abstinence from slave produce?
We have attended with him many Conven
tions where lie has taken an active and even
a leading part; but we never remember to
bare seen the first line from his pen, or heard
the first word from his lips, slating him to lie
an advoctae of the use of free produce. lie
may have become converted recently, but if
*o, one would suppose that lie would have
grade his conversion public at nome, at least
toon as he published it abroad, Bu) no
•uch profession has been made heie, and the
•atural inference from thu fact is, that this
profession of faith is intended for a foreign
market rather than for home consumption.
The party which has invited him to England,
hires him to advocate a given movement, and
Mr. Garnet like a practical man, prepares
iiitriself for his office. We do not hesitate to
say, that no reliance may be placed upon any
jtatements which he may make respecting the
‘‘North Star” or ns editor, should he conde
scend to notice either while in England. His
feelings towards its, so far as we have been
able lo learn them, are those of bitter hostility.
Hi* eourse here lias been that of an enemy,
and we have no reason to believe that his
••ourse abroad will be that of a friend. We
now take leave of Mr. Garnet, having honestly
given out opinion of him. He is at full liber
ty to slander and misrepresent ais in England,
or elsewhere, as bo has done most liberally
in various pans of the Timed States. We
prefer an open enemy, lo one in disguise; we
therefore without any cowardly disclaimer of
any kind, wish it to be understood that Mr
Garnet and ourselves are on any other term*
than those of good fellowship.— v. o.
Klv. Hcnki H. G a knot*, a colored clergy
man ol decided talent, is about leaving for
England, for the purpose of lecturing upon
'livery in that country. He is the chief oppo
nent of Fkeolrk k Douglass, and differs with
m on many questions pertaining to the ele
■aG>n of the African race. He is sound and
H.ute m his views, and entirely opposed
1 die violent and denunciatory' course of the
,l >hi Mjs school of abolitionists. —Rochester
ri uttcrat.
■I\V not the reverend gentleman exclaim
t,al h'“ v 1 done, that the wicker! praise
iHr f 1
Hocse o* Refkeskntativc*.
1 ue New \ork Tribute publishes a table ol
of Congress already ehossn,
m.n which it appears that the House thus
no Aland*—Whigs mi, Ixicofocos 9!?, Free
Whips 8, and Free Soil Wofucos 5.
Here are 18 member* yet lo by chosen, 9 of
•tocb the Tribune will b v Whig*, 8
Ucofocos, and I f ree Soil. Making lbs
sund—Whig* 110, l.oeofocoA jo7,
i d Free Soil 14. No uaitv will have a clear
majority m the next House, if these calcu
are correct. 'The prominent, candidates
r Speaker will be Kobert C. Winthrop.
of Masaachusetts, and Howell Cobb,
Hicofoeo, of Georgia,
To KirhaiiKCA.
II our esteemed friend George Dawi»o>
the Hirmiiigliam Mercury to lie sen
'eortjuf!y to the North Star office, Rochestei
ti.-ill lif greatly obliged by Hr. Camfskli
Hrwardmg Ihe British Banner.” We can
dupense w|tli any one of our Briush ex

Foreign Near* of the Week.
The Caledonia arrived tt her wharf at East
Boston, on Friday I**l, *nd brings intelli
one week later from Europe.
England. The intelligence from Britain
is not important. There appears at preaeot to
be nothing above the political boriaon. The
House*, of Parliament having disposed of their
business, and been dismissed, the London pe
per* seem to be under the necessity of filling
up their collosaal proportions with the smaller
fish of political, religious, and scientific meet
ings occurring in different towns throughout
the country. Emigration, Hungary, Anti
j State Church, and now and then a radical
reform, or Chartist meeting, supply the read
ing material. Peace and Anti-Capital Pun
ishment, also, in different parts of the country,
attract a share of popular consideration. The
Total Abstinence Cause has not yet in Log
land assumed the importance in the estimation
of the people which it has in the Northern
States of this country though it is by no
means without its able and admired advocates,
and ta gradually though aursly working the
overthrow of those too prevalent drinking
customs, which press not less ruinously on the
morals, than on the limited means of the
laboring classes. Public sentiment, thst teal
Parliament of England, as it is of all civi
lized countries, where the pres* and the pen
make themselves heard, is now holding it*
sittings and it is not difficult to discern, that
the character of its legislation is every day
becoming more liberal, humane, and expan
sive. The doctrine of feudal rights is rapid
ly dying out. The masses are demanding
and will obtain a hearing. 11)# many are
becoming educated and intellectual, and their
int elligeoce cannot fail to secure for them a
more rational and equable system of govern
ment. The subject of emigration is attract
ing much attention. It is doubtless the sub
ject of the time, and the calm and candid
spirit in which writers of all parties consider
it, seems to promise that it will be made
the means of relieving some of the
most pressing difficulties.
Amongst the subjects of discussion in Lon
don, not the least important is a movement
for the total abolition of all taxes on know
ledge. Under this designation are included the
newspaper stamp tax and the tax on paper.
The former of these, in conjunction with the
large amount of security required from the
publishers of newspapers, places a very seri
ous obstacle in the way of the cheap diffusion
of The stamp costs a penny Eng
itsh—nearly two cents American money on
each newspaper. This however, pay* the
postage to any part of the kingdom. The
tax on paper is one of the most oppressive
and injurious that can well be conceived.
Paper of whatever quality is taxed three
half-pence per pound. This, of necessity
also greatly enhances the cost of priming in
England. It is high time that all of those
hindrances to the cheap and universal spread
of literature were for ever abolished.
On the 16th of August, the report of
cholera cases in London was 358 —deaths
157; the rest of England and Wales, cases
407 —deaths 193; Scotland, cases 27
deaths 15. Total—caaes 793—deaths, 384.
So that, taking the entire country, the epi
demic cannot be said to be very prevalent or
alarmingly fatal. Since our last (says the
European Times) nothing has occurred to
warrant uneasines in the probable result of
the harvest. A considerable quantity of
rain has fallen, but the showers have been
partial, and having been followed by briak
drying breezes, no mischief has resulted. On
one point, however, the accounts are not so
universally favorable as was the case a week
or two ago, complaints having reached us
from the western part of England in reference
to potatoes. But our own impression is that
the early sorts have almost wholly escaped, and
that the later kinds are more free of the dis
ease than has been the case in any season
since its first appearance in these islands.
The papers are still full of the royal visit,
arid its anticipated effects. A correspondent
of the Times, whose wits have clearly been
turned topsy-turvy by the honor done to “ould
Ireland,” thus writes—“ Such a day of jubi
lee S uch a night of rejoicing has
never been beheld in the ancient capital of
lieland since first it arose on the banks of the
Liffey. No ovation of olden Rome enriched
with the spoils of conquered nations, and il
lustrated by the wealth of captured kings,
was so glorious as the triumphant entry of
Queen Victoria into Dublin.”
An enthusiasm of loyalty seems to have
silenced for the time, the murmurs of faction
and the groans of poverty. Radiant smiles
and happy faces were all that the Queen saw
in her Irish capital. Disloyalty would aeem
to be unnatural to the Irish. They are rebels
only by constraint; and under happier aus
pices, might be relied upon as the most faithfnl
adherents of monarchy, and most zealous de
fenders of the crown against all inimical as
saults. The London Inquirer, speaking of
this Queen’s visit, says,
“We are very far from saying or supposing
that the maladies of Ireland are imaginary.
Unhappily they are but too real; but it is
no less certain that their pressure is aggtava-
I ted. We should not be surprised if a belief
in the advent of better times were to operate
like a charm on the Irish mind. This belief,
1 whether it be reasonable or unreasonable,
does seem to spring up in her Majtsty foot
steps. What though it should excite fanci
ful expectation, if at the same time, itstimu
tales men to a new development of then
i powers 1 The fable of the children who dug
up their whole inheritance in search of an im
aginary treasure, is of perpetual applicability.
Strenuous and hopeful efforts are never thrown
away”
The harvest in Ireland promises well. In
most districts Oats and Barley will be abun
dant, beyond the usual average; but it ia
feared that the potato blight will-be fgain
partially expeiiemied. A writer in an Irish
paper says “From Connemara I have had a
very melancholy report. The blight appears
to lie there in its most aggravated type.” A,
Clonmel, it is also said that the disease has
appeared in sheltered places. The Cholera ia
fatal amongst the upper class, in various parts
of Ireland.
j A very melancholy accident occurred or
the Uth of August to the Glaroorganahiit
colliery, in Wales. 112 colliers descended
the Uleity Shenkin shaft of that great cos
basin, and no leas than 52 of the number trl
victims to the deadly fire-damp. The Duki
ol the eoe*io*law ol the cm
peror of Russia, has lately arrived in Eng
land. It was at first thought that hit veil
wa* of a political oharacter, hot R appear!
that he is going to Ms deira to peas the winte
It was observed that one of the first visits his
highness paid was to Prince Metterntch, who
ia living at Richmond, a few miles from Lon
don, in greet retirement. The Duke has
been visited by Lord Palmerston, sad dined
with Lord John Russell, who h is to bo hoped
took the opportunity of informing him of the
abhorrence in w hicb tbs barbarous proceed
ings of his augoat father-in-law are univer
sally held in England. Even he, surrounded
by his Cossacks, and in the plenitude of im
perial power, i* not beyond the reach of
moral influence. It ia not difficult to endure
the reproach of the ignorant and the vicious;
but he moat be indeed lost to all right feeling,
who can seo with indifference the finger of
acorn pointed at him by the intelligent and
the virtuous.
Our Eaglieh exchangee give very full re
ports of the recent trial of the Countess of
Landefelt, alias Eliza Rose Anne James, alias
Rosanna Gilbert, better known as Lola Mon
tes, on a charge of bigamy, which would be
interesting to readers who have a taste for
such things; but we have not room for it.
The facta in the case, ate thi* lady was
married lo a youth of the name of Heald, a
Lieutenant in the army, on the 19th of Jnly.
She had been previously married to Capt.
James, who ia now- with his regiment in
lodia but declared om her trial, that she
had since been divorced from him by Act of
Parliament. The conclusion of the matter
was that the prisoner was liberated upon find
ing two sureties in .£5OO each, and herself in
1000, to reappear on a future day and the
silly youth with bis dear spoto made tracks
for the continent. The Times says, that im
mediately on the marriage of Lteut. Heald
with the Countess of Landafelt, the Marquis
of Londonderry, Colonel of his Regiment, re
commended to her Majesty that this officer’s
resignation be insisted upon. It was wrong in
the judgment of the Colonel, that the Lieu
tenant should marry Lola Montes. Another
course, according to the military code of honor
and gallantry, would probably have been per
fectly honorable and right.
France. On the 10th ult., a rather excit
ing scene occurred in the Assembly. It was
on the occasion of the presentation of a peti
tion for leave to prosecute two repiesentatives,
MM. Soumier and Richardet, for the pub
lication of seditions articles. One of the
members, in his speech, somehow or other
dragged up the name of the President, and
asked—
Where was the President at the execution
of the assassin of Ganeral Brea? He was
resting from the fatigues of the ball the night
before, and recruiting his strength for the ball
of the next night. What was it to him?—
Had he not his 600,000 francs a year to
spend?” M. Gastier, an aged representative
belonging to the left, exclaimed, “It is quite
true!”—M. Pierre Bonaparte, who happened
to be sitting near him, immediately addressed
him and said, “Oh, you do not know my
cousin, or you would not say so. It is not
true.” The other Tetorted, Oh, I know bet
ter; it is quite true.”—M. Pierre Bonaparte
then said, “No, 1 say it ts not.” On which
M. Gastier hastily exclaimed, “You are an
imbecile.” which was replied to on the instant
by a slap on the face from M. Pierre Bona
parte.
The members of the left immediately rush
ed to the assistance of M. Gastier, and those
of the right to protect M. Pierre Bonaparte.
The ushers ran up to atop the tumult, but
the crowd had in a moment become so com
pact that they were unable to effect their ob
ject. A number of members were then seen
struggling together, and the confusion was one
of the most painful description so that the
President at once put on his hat, to intimate
that the sitting was suspended. The strug
gle, however, went on, until, at the end of
about ten minutes, the members of the dense
crowd gradually unclosed their hold, and with
disarranged dress and heated faces withdrew
to their places.
On the 11th the President presented a re-i
quisition for authority to prosecute M. Bona
parte, for the outrage committed the previous
day. Tltis was granted unanimously.
The Paris journals, of course, comment
upon the singular affair. It is rather unfortu-;
nate for the cousin of the President that M. I
Gastier is an old man, upwards of seventy,
and public sympathy is therefore more in his
favor than it would otherwise have been.
The Moniteur announces that the President
has authorized Mr. Jacob Brett, an English 1
man, to establish on the coast of France, at 1
some point not yet determined upon, between
Calais and Boulogne, a sub-marine telegraph*
to communicate with the English coast at
Dover. The works are to be completed be
fore the Ist of September, 1850. Gen. Oudi.
not is daily expected in Paris. It is rumored
that to make amends for his recall from Italy,
in addition to the rank of Marshal already
conferred on him, he w ill be nominated Grand
Chancellor of the Legion of Honor. It appears
pretty*evident that the President looks forward
to a continuance or extension of his power,
and is not particularly anxious about mere
presidential authority. M. Bertin, the mayor
of Havre, on a recent visit of the President to
that city, in his speech on the occasion, said:
Let the love of France be your crown, and
the glory will be immortal. Washington had
no other, and his memory will be eternal.
Long live the President of the Republic!”—
For this the President snubbed M. Bertin
rather sharply, as was thought at the time,
more after the fashion of a Prince than a
President. He ia not desirous of being a
second Washington.”
Rome. Gen. Oudinot, having resigned bis
power in Rome, a commission of three cardi
nals have been authorized by the Pope to
form a ministry and re-establish the temporal
authority of the supreme Pontiff. This com
mission seem resolved to govern after the
most approved manner of despots. The capi
tal, under their direction, has resumed quite a
warlike aspect. Bodies of infantry and cav
alry are encamped during the night on the
principal squares. Four pieces of artillery
are pointed on the Plazzo del Populo, towards
the four principal streets of the city. The
other acts of the priestly commission are
equally ominous. They have to-established
the ecclesiastical courts; repealed all laws
enacted since the 6th of November, 1848;
dismissed all government functionaries who
served under the republic. Their proceed
ings, in short, are such that nothing hot tb«
presence of the troops prevents a general
convulsions. Thia is what France has done
for the Romans. Te the eternal infamy
that slum- republic be this kept in remem
branpe.
Austria and news ol
last week seems to be coafirm ed. If the ac
counts may be relied on, the Hungarians are
making rapid prog rest in driving tb* wemy
from their country. It is agreed on all bands
that Ihe report of a great victory being gained
by the Hungarians at Raab, is writ founded 1
The only account of the affair hieh the Ass- 1
trians have seen fit to publish, is an unintelli
gible dispatch from Gen. Caorich. But it
must be confessed thst amidst all the accounts
of brilliant victories obtained by tbe Magyars,
the Hungarian army seems to be losing
ground. The Vienna papers stale officially
that General Haynau entered Szegedea on the
2d ult. without experiencing any resistance
The Weiner Zeitting of the Bth. publishes
private letters from the head-quartets of Gen
eral Haynau, dated Szegeden, August 4th.
It thus appears that this city, which nuti] that
date, bad been the head-quarters of Kossuth,
had fallen into the hands of the enemy. It
docs not now appear where Kossuth is. Tbe
movements of General Gotgey are also quite
uncertain. It seems beyond dispute, however,
that tbe main body of tbe Hungarian army
have retreated across the Theiss. It also ap
pears that on the 4th ult. General Haynau
crossed tbe Theiss, and attacked the fortified
camp of the Magyars, under the command of
Dembinaki and two other Generals, and all
the entrenchments were taken, after a deter-;
mined resistance. The imperial troops were:
then said to be advancing victoriously on all
sides. From the western theatre of war, the i
accounts are more encouraging. The Polish
Gazette of Posen, which of course is friendly
to the cause of the Hungarians, states that on
the 2d and 3d of August, tbe Hungarians en
tered Gallicia, and took possession of several
districts of that province. It is also admitted
by a Russian Bulletin, that the Magyars have
entered Moldavia with a force of from 4000'
to 5000 strong, and had previously defeated
the Prussians in the pass of Ojtu. From
Transylvania, where Bern has been operat
ing for some time past, the news is suffi
ciently discoutaging. Vienna papers of the
12th ult. contain an official dispatch from the
Russian general Luders, that on the 31st of
July a battle took place between the forces
under his command and the Hungarian army
under Bern, in which the latter was defeated.
One thousand Hungarians arc said to have
been killed in this battle, and five hundred
prisoners captured by the Russians. The
Russian loss was 44 killed, and 108 wounded.
Seven field-pieces, two standards, a large
quantity of amunition, and a travelling calash
in which wete important papers belonging to
General Bern, also fell into the hands of the
Russians. It is new asserted, that in conse
quence of the representations of England
and France, the Prussians will evacuate
Hungary in the course of forty days, and
have resolved on proposing terms of concilia
tion to the Magyars. From the other coun
tries of Europe there is no news of import
ance.— j. d.
Notices.
Anti-Slavery Lectures and Fairs.
Frederick Douglass will visit and lectuie,
and Fairs will be held, under the management
of the Ladies of the W. N. Y. A. S. Society,
at the following places in the course of next
month namely:
W T est Walworth, lecture, Tuead. Sep. 4th.
Marion, Wednesd. 6th.
Palmyra, Thursd. 6th.
Victor, Friday 7th.
Fair, Saturday Bth.
W. Bloomfield, Lecture, Sunday 9th.
Fair, Monday 10th.
Oswego, Lecture, Thursday and Friday,
Sept. 13th and 14th.
Fulton Village, Lecture, Sunday and Mon
day, 16th and 17th.
Mount Morris, Lecture, Thursday, 20ih.
Fair, Friday, 21st.
Caledonia, Lecture, Sunday, 23d.
Scottsville, Monday, 24th.
Fair, Tuesday, 25th.
Honeoye Falls, Lecture, Thursday, 27ih.
Fair, Friday, 28th.
Lockport, Lecture, Thursday, Oct. sth.
Fair, Friday, 6th.!
N.B. The Lecture at each of the above
named places will commence at 7 p.m. pre
cisely, unless some other hour is named in a
future notice.
Appeal of the Philadelphia Association
The‘“Women’s Association ofPhiladel-i
phia” appeal to a benevolent public, and to
the friends of the Slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching Fair, the ob
ject of which is to sustain the “North Star
To those who are familiar with the pages of
this paper it is unnecesary to speak of its
merit. To those who have not seen it we
may say, that we regard it as one of the very
best anti-slavery instrumentalities now m the
field.
We are the more interested in it, becausej
the editor is one of our oppressed race, and
admirably qualified by bis talents and moral
worth, to perform with credit the arduous
task of editing a paper devoted to our eleva
tion. We believe and trust that our friends
will give us their liberal aid.
To our own people we look earnestly ank
hopefully. Sisters, Brothers, shall we foods
in vain? The iron has entered into your souls.
Ye go heavily, bowed down to the very dust,;
dispirited, crushed by the weight of oppres
sion. Ye hear the taunts of the enemy,
“They are so ignorant and onrefiaed! They
are jealous of one other’ Yes, they unite
but it is only to put down one who is more
intellectual than the mass!” Prove by thej
unerring languige of conduct that these as-|
Bert ions so often thrown in our faces are ma
licious slanders. Sustain F. Douglass, be
cause his talents and correct principles de
mand your respect and confidence. Sustain
him because it is right 10 do so, and because
of the sweet peace the performance of so woi
thy an action will assuredly bring it mto you:
bosoms.
The Fair will be held on Christmas week.
Donations for it may be sent to
HARRIET SMITH, 319 Lombard-street,
RACHEL LLOYD, 303 Pme-stzeet,
AMY M. CASSEY, 113 Lombard-street,
Or to any member of the Association.
Elizabeth Appe, Lvdia An* Bcstill,
Maby Babbott, Hetty Bcrb,
Louisa Bristol, Hcle.n Johnson,
Hester Bi still, Eliza Jones,
Charlotte Mills.
SARAH M. DOUGLASS, Cor. See’y.
No 54 Mullberry at.
Philadelphia, 6th mo 25.
Imccath National AaU-*ta*eiT Bazaar.
The Committee of the National Anu-Sla
very Bazaar, deeply feelingjhe.r Wonaibili
ty to the My cause of Freedom Humani
ty with which they are identified, have re
solved anew to make their exertions for its
promotion correspond with the greatness of
its demand* and the rapid"?
Ji i. unnecessary at this lais <Uy to enter
upon anv formal eapewuoo of the principles
tod measures of the American Anti-Slavery
Society to the support of which the funds re
•citing from this effort are devoted. The lin
C«ag« of our last year's Call will eif*e»
better than wit other nor preeest convict tom
of iu necessity and value. “Yews of ck*e
observation of its righteous principles aod nn
compromising practical »urkiogs aasore as
ibat it has the eleniems of success. It coo
tinualljr sends forth lecturers to enforce the
principle* of just ci and humanity among the
people, and in a few years is found thereby
to have exercised a controlling influence for
good throughout the country. It dictates the
course and bends the policy o( every political
party; and speaking as it does from'a height
above thek selfish persona) struggles, its
words of everlasting truth are heard and more
and more obeyed. It has no local attach
ments, no sectarian or partisan partialities,
no hidden aim, no double purpose." With
this Society in a word, reals the hope of the
American Slave. Its continuance and in
creased success, the number of its agents and
the circulation of its periodicals depend great
ly on the amount of funds which ws through
thi* yearly effort are enabled to place at is
disposal.
We zegard the importance of the American
Anti-Slavcrv Society as paramount to that
of any other Anti-Slavery oiganixation, and
of coursejrts claims tor help and sympathy par
amount to those of any other. Boston and its
environs indeed supply us with a market, but
with a trifling exception barely sufficient to re
munerate the expense of Anti-Slavery adver
tisments, not a cent of our receipts is expen
ded in Massachusetts. In sustaining the
Cause in her own borders, she asks no aid
from beyond them, but relies entirely on her
own efforts.
These being our circumstances, we appeal
to Abolitionists everywhere, earnestly invo
king of each aid and assistance proportionate
alike to the dignity and necessity of the work
we have undertaken. We are laboring for the
estahli shment of those foundation principles
on which of all men must of necessity
rest. Therefore to All we appeal in confi
dent reliance on that common human heart
whose unsophisticated instincts furnish our
best hope of success.
The Sixteenth National Anti-Slavery Ba
zaar will be held at Boston during Christ
mas week, and all desiring to co-operate
w ith us are requested to communicate with the
undersigned.
Frederick Douglass: A few weeks since, 1
observed in a number of the North Star, an
article with the caption, ‘*.4 woman with two
husbands" taken, 1 think, from an Kngliab
paper.
It brought immediately to my mind a ease
of the name kind wtthio my own knowledge.
If in your opinion it would be of any mterwt
or benefit to your readers, you are at libeny
to hand over to your publisher the following
hasty sketch for it is but a sketch of what
would make a volume.—*.
A WOMAN WITH TWO HI RDANDS:
OR. THE RETURNING PRODIGAL.
In the last war between Great Britain!
and the United States, W. H i:eld
a commission in the army of this coun
try. Like other officers and most pri
vates of the time, he formed an ac
quaintance with the social glass." In
his case, the acquaintance resulted in
confirmed drunkenness.
When an officer, he partook only ofj
liquor brought by a waiter to the parlor
of the first class hotels. As a private
citizen after the war, he was kicked
away trom such hotels, and was fain
to fill himself” at the lowest and most
despicable groggery: thus he was not
allowed to pursue bis trade where he
had learned it. What keeper of a
hotel that vends the “creature,” or
keeps to sell intoxicating drinks, does
not do this?—does not take from the'
man of however excellent reputation,
his money and his fair name? Not for
an equivalent, but for that which inva-’
riably injures the name and the man, i
just in the proportion in which it is
used. And when his victim is deprived
of both money and character, despise
him?
He was once possessed of the attri-
butes of manhood, but was now a
drunkard. At this period of his history,
he was a resident of the town of Sodus,.
in Wayne county, this state. He was
a husband and father—had an amiable
wife and promising children. I need
not speak of his frequent determination
to leave the tatal glass and return to j
sobriety and usefulness. In every di
rection the alluring temptation was pre
sented, and he had too long been the
willing subject now to break the ine
briating chain. He respected his wife
and loved his childreu too ardently toj
he the means coheir continual dis
grace and Having wisely
concluded that be better off',
without than with him, he left home,
resolved never to return, a
reformed mau.
Month after month and
year passed away, and no leuer or,
report 'was received by his family or
friends from this wandering inebriate.'
Not many months, however, after his
departure, a man by the same name
was killed in blasting rocks at Lock
port; and no information being received
by his family from their own beloved
husband and father, it was concluded
that the killed W. H. was he. His
wife therefore was considered a widow.
Having an offer of marriage from a
man whom she thought had a more
comfortable home than her own, she
accepted it. But as he proved not to
be equal to her first husband, when
sober, her attachment for him was not
of the strongest kind. She had married
him, not that she loved him, but be
cause he could give her a home.

In the year 183- the wreck of a human
being was seen wending his way beside
the road leading from Buffalo to the
now village of Govvanda. Disconsolate
as he was, and dirty as were
mains of the garments that hunJHbut
him, his broad, capacious foreflp in
dicated that he had once been
of some distinction. Deep, and dreary,
and painful, had been his
fall, but, blessed merciful God,
not beyond lt was W. H.
Where had he been, and whither
was he going The story would be too
long for a single newspaper article, as
I have concluded to make this Moral
j ly, mentally, physically, and geograph
f ically, he had been far from his home.
The story of his privation is an affect
ing one. At one period of his history,
he was upon the lap ot luxury and
I summit of prosperity: at another, and
at the lime we now speak of, a misera
blc subject of intemperance and victim
of delirium tremens. Not so. He was
not note the subject of intemperance;
for he had drank the lust glass of the
intoxicating beverage. His brothers
found him—washed and furnished him
with whole and clean apparel, and by
practising the law of kindness, soon
restored him to himself. He thanked
most fervently his God that he was
again in his “rig/ft mind.”
He now remembered the wife and
children whom he had for so many long
I years forsaken. Where were they
now? Being now a reformed man,
could he not go to see them? Might
he not hope to be again restored tc
their fond embraces? He would at
least go and ask of his wife that for
giveness which had not been denied
i him oy his Father. His brothers, fear
mg a return of insanity, did n- inform
i him that his wife had again married.—
He had arrived within 10 or 12 miles
of his former residence before this as
t toundmg intelligence reached his ear
j “O my God! what shall I do? Whei
shall my cup of suffering be full? J
1 have no good reason to complain, bu
bow long shall I feel thy chastening
rod? May 1 not enjoy the society oi
my children?” He resolved to go anc
see them.
We next find the subject of our stor)
at the house of his father-in-law, re
ceiving from a sister to his wife a lettei
of introduction to his daughter,—whet
he left, a little prattler—now arrivec
to womanhood, and teaching school ii
a neighboring town, near the [now
j ’residence of her mother.
Arriving at a house near the schoo
of his daughter, a message was dis
patched to her that a gentleman then
wished io see her. A tall voting ladj
soon entered, and received by the ham
ol the stranger the letter of introductiot
I to her father. She glanced hastilj
over the letter, and was not long ii
1 finding the words, The bearer of thi
is your father.” “Can it be *v fa
tiilr!”
The introduction to tbe wife am
mother can better be imagined tha
described. She bad bettered him
dead, bot he was alive.” Of course,
had he come directly from the grave,
the shock could hare been no greater.
In conclusion, let me say that my
readers will be agreeably interested to
learn that the former wife of W. H.
is his first, present, and only wife!
Her first lore was the stronger. She
could not lire with another man while
her husband was yet alive.
They hare a comfortable, pleasant
home in this town. I hardly need say
that my friend W H. has been an
efficient laborer in the cause of tempe
rance, and that he is a warm and devo
ted friend of the slave.
Collins Centre, N. Y.
Selections.
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAW.
BV JOHN O WHITTIER.
The population of Lowell is consti
tuted mainly of New Englanders, but
there are representatives here of almost
every part of the civilized world. The
good humored face of the Milesian
meets one at almost every turn, —the
shrewdly solemn Scotchman, the trans-
Atlantic Yankee, blending the crafty
thrift of Bryce Snailsfoot with the stern
religious heroism of Cameron, —the
blue-eyed, fair-haired German, from
the towered hills which overlook the
the Rhine, slow, heavy, and unpromis
ing in his exterior, yet of the same
mould and mettle of the men who ral
lied for Father-Land at the Tyr
tean call of Korner, and beat back the
chivalry of France from the banks of
the Katzbach, the countrymen of
Ritcher, and Goethe, and our sainted
Fcllen. Here, too, are pedlars from
Hamburgh, and Bavaria, and Poland,
with their sharp Jewish faces and black
keen eyes. At this moment, beneath
my window', are two sturdy, sun-brown
ed Swiss maidens, grinding music for
a livelihood, rehearsing in a strange
Yankee land, the simple songs of their
old mountain home, reminding me by
their foreign garb and language, of
Lauterbrumicn’s peasant girl.
Poor wanderers! —I love not their mu
sic: but now as their notes die away,
and, to use the words of Dr. Holmes,
silence comes like a poultice to heal
the wounded ear,” I feel grateful for
their visitation. Away from the crowd
ed thoroughfare, from brick walls and
dusty avenues, at t|}g sight of these
poor peasants I have gone in thought
to the vale of Chaumony, and seen,
with Coleridge, the morning star paus
ing on the bald awful head of Sovran
Blanc,” and the sunrise and the sunset
glorious upon snow-crested mountains,
down in yhosc vallies the night still
lingers—and following in the track of
Byron and Rousseau, have watched,
the lengtnening shadow's of the hills oni
the beautiful waters of the Genevan
lake. Blessings, then, upon the young
wayfarers, for they have blessed me
unawares.” In an hour of sickness
and lassitude, they have wrought for me
the miracle of Lorretto’s chapel, and
borne me away from the scenes around
me, and the mom of personal suffering,
to that wonderful land where nature
seems still uttering, from lake and,
mountains whose eternal snows lean on>
the hard blue heaven, the echoes of
that mighty hymn of a new-created
world, when the morning stars sang
together, and all the sons of God shout
ed for joy!”
But of all classes of foreigners, the
Irish are by far the most numerous.
They constitute a quiet and industrious
portion of the population, and are con
sequently respected by their Yankee
neighbors. For myself, I confess I feel
a sympathy for the Irishman. I see
him as the representative of a generous,
warm-hearted, and cruelly oppressed
people. That he lov& his native land
—that his patriotism is divided—that
he cannot forget the claims of his
mother island—that bis religion, with
all its abuses, is dear to him—does not
decrease my estimation of him. A
stranger in a “trange land, he is to me
always an object of interest. The
poorest and rudest has a romance in
his history. Amidst all his apparent!
gaeity of heart and national drollery
and wit, the poor emigrant has sad
I thoughts of the “ould mother of him,”
sitting in her solitary cabin by the hog
i side—recollections of a father’s bles
sing, and a sister’s farewell are haunt
i ing him—a grave inound in a distant
church-yard, far beyond the “wide
wathers,” has an eternal greenness in
his memory—for there, perhaps, lies aj
darlint child,” or a swate crather
who once loved him, —the New World
is forgotten for the moment —blue Kil
larney and the Lifty sparkle before him
—Gtendalough stretches beneath him
its dark still mirror—he sees the same,
evening sunshine rest upon and hallow
alike with nature’s blessings the ruins
of the Seven Churches of Ireland’s
i apostolic age, the broken mound of the
Druids, and the Round Towers of the!
Phenican sun-worshippers,—beautiful
i and mournful recollections of his home
w'aken within him—and the rough and
seemingly careless and light-hearted
laborer melts into tears. It is no light
thing to abandon one’s own country
and household gods. Touching and
i beautiful was the injunction of the
Prophet of the Hebrews: Ye shall
not oppress the stranger, for ye know
the heart of the stranger seeing that ye
were strangers in the land of Egypt.”
1 love my country—l have a strong
j New England feeling: but I am no
friend of that narrow spirit of mingled
I national vanity and religious intolerance
which under the name of Native A
mericanisrn, has made its appearance
among us. I reverence man, as man.,
j I have no prejudices against other na
tions—l caunot regard the people of
England as my enemies, nor sympa
thize with the blustering sham patriot
ism which is ever exclaiming, like the|
giant of the nursery tale:
Kec-Ciu funu!
1 y*rll lh* blood of an Englishman;
I)t:ul or alive, 1 will have seme.”
I remember that the same sun which
shines upon England’s royalty and
priestcraft, streams also into the dusty
workshop of Ebenezer Elliot—rests on
the drab coat of the Birmingham
Quaker Reformer—greets O’Connell
hrougb tbo grates of his prison—glo
rifies the grey loeks of Clarkson, and
j gladdened the heroic-hearted Harriet
Marttneau, in her sick chamber at the
mouth of the Tyne. With heart and
son! I respond to the sentiments of
Channiog, when speaking of a foreign
nation:
“That nation is not an abstraction
to me; it is no longer a vague mass; it
spreads out before me into individuals,
in a thousand interesting forms and rela
tions; it consists of husbands and wives
—parents and children —who love one
at. "‘her as I love my own home; it
consists of affectionate women and
sweet children; it consists of Chris
tians, united with me to the common
Savior, and in whose spirit I reverence
the likeness of his divine virtue; it
consists of a vast multitude of laborers
at the plow and in the workshop, whose
toils I sympathize with, whose burdens
I should rejoice to lighten, and for
whose elevation 1 haw pleaded; it
consists of men of science, taste, ge
nius, whose writings have beguiled my
solitary hours, and given life to my
intellect and best affections. I love
this nation: its men and women are my
brothers and sisters.”
Young Chann ing. —Thanks to my
stars, I can say I have never killed a
bird. I would not crush the meanest
insect which crawls upon the ground.
They have the same right to live that 1
have; they received it from the same
Father; and I will not mar the works
of God by wanton cruelty.
1 can remember an incident in my
childhood, which has given a turn to
my whole life and character. 1 found
a nest of birds in my father’s field,
which contained four young ones.
They had no down when I first disco
vered them. They opened their little
mouths as if they were hungry, and I
gave them some crumbs which were in
ray pocket. Every day I returned to
feed them. As soon as school was
done, 1 would run home for some
bread, and sit by the nest to see them
eat, for an hour at a time. They were
now leathered, and almost ready to fly.
When I came one morning, I found
them all cut up into quarters. The
grass round the nest was red with
blood. Their little limbs were raw and
bloody. The mother was on a tree,
and the father on the wall, mourning
for their young. I cried, myself, for I
was a child. I thought, too, that the
parents looked upon me as the author
of their miseries, and this made me
still more unhappy. I wanted to un
deceive them. I wanted to sympathize
with and comfort them. When I left
the field, the/ followed me with their
eyes and with mournful reproaches. I
was too young and too sincere in my
grief to make any apostrophes. But I
can never forget my feelings. The
impression will never be worn away,
nor can I ever cease to abhor every
species of inhumanity toward inferior
animals.— Dr. Channmg.
From the New York Tribune;
OPTICAL ILLUSION IN THE CATS
KILL MOUNTAINS.
The following interesting extract
from a private letter, descriptive of a
singular optical illusion on the Catts- j
kill Mountains, written by an eye wit- j
ness, has been banded to us by a friend
for publication:
The afternoon [Tuesday,
Aug. 14] was a memorable one for the
Mountain. The optical illusion of last!
Monday week, was reproduced, but
more transcendantiy beautiful than it,
had ever appeared before. It is the
third time in twenty years that this ex
traordinary phenomenon has been per
ceived. Mrs. A. and myself were sit
ting on the rock in front of the piazza,
when she suddenly exclaimed: “Look!
look!” I did so, and the whole hotel
was mirrored in the cloud before us.— j
The whole house was assembled imme-
diately, and we ran out to the point of
rock from which the phenomenon of
last Monday had been perceived. We
were scarcely there a minute when a
beautifully arched rainbow was formed
in the cloud, exactly in the centre of
which was seen the entire group, pre
cisely as they stood on the ledge of
rock. It was not merely their shadows,
but the entire form of each person in
the group was distinctly visible; each
person saw the whole group, not merely
the reflection of his own image. This
lasted about five minutes, when the
rainbow disappeared, and the phenom
enon of Monday last succeeded; each
person saw his own shadow, of huge
dimensions, reflected on the cloud and
'surrounded by a halo of light, but was
unable to see that of his neighbor. I
shall never in iny life see anything of
the kind again, and if I had not seen it,
I could have formed no conception of
its effect; it was perfectly thrilling.—
The poems of Ossian, the Children of
the Mist; the Death-fetch of the Ger
mans; the Spectral Phantoms that were
fearful visions to the less enlightened
ages, were all realized distinctly and
palpably before us. This visit to the
Catskills has revealed to me more of
I the wonders of nature than all else that
j I have seen put together. c. r. d/
Not a bad custom. —The Samnites,
a people descended from the Lacede
monians, had a custom among them
selves which must have produced an
excellent effect upon their morals. At
an appointed time, the young people
were all assembled in one place, their
conduct was closely examined, and he
who was found most eminent for virtue
and services to his country, had per
mission to choose for his wife anybody
he preferred out of the whole nation.—
“Admirable institution!” exclaims Mon
tesquieu. “The only recommenda
tion that young men could have on this
occasion was owing to virtue and to the
services done their country. Love,
beauty, chastity, birth, and even wealth,
were all, in some measure, the dowry
of virtue. A nobler, grander recom
pense, less chargeable to a petty state,
and more capable of influencing both
•extotf, cuuid scarcely be imagined.
Radii.
Truthful.—A printer, whose talents
were but indifferent, turned physician.
He was asked the reason of it. “In
priming,” answered be, “all the faults
are exposed to the eye; but in physic
they are buried with the patient; and
one gets off more easily.”
Why is a lady, while decorating her
fingers, like one in distress? Because
she’s wringing her hands