the image of god cut in ebony
forgive me, brethren if u fervent
hone and desire that you may not, ss a
community, he found wanting here,
jkould give some appearance of anxie
ty on thi a point, to the suggestions
which i now venture to lay before you.
the limits which necessity compels me
to prescribe to these pages, will allow
of only a brief survey of three distinct 1
views of our duty and responsibility, j j
as a free colored population; one ts,
self-elevation. the second, u firm,
steady adherence to anti-slavery ad
vocates. the third, a due considera-j
lion of the influence which you ought. j
to exercise with slaves, as opportunity
offers. j
with respect to self-elevation, you
will agree with us. in deeming it at
tained, by the culture of inward lofty
sentiments* giving a pure and good as-
pect to hourly actions, rather than as;
appertaining to any outward condition
whatever. our nature um\ he elevated, j
though “our calling may he low,”
and a pure well-conditioned mind in j
man whether he be lngb or low, rich
or poor, black or white, e* his best i
measure, as it is ood s best work.
fvery human being is an improvable
creature, since every human being is 1
endowed bv our common parent, with
the capacity til' “conscientious reflec- 1
*lion, and with a self-searching power. ”l
this ‘honourable mark, set alike upon
ns all,” should knit together all man-i
kind in respect for their common na
ture, since it is this very power which!
enables us to act with deliberation and
forecast, and to determine “solemnly!
and resolutely, to make the most and
the best of the ability which piod hasj
bestowed upon us. happily the at-1
tainment of this self-searching and,
self-forming power, does not depend
upon external circumstances; though,!
undoubtedly, the disposition ot these,j
may often aid in its development. hie;
mind which has in it the seeds ot wis
dom and piety, and many sucit there'
are in the abodes of poverty, pain,!
and okscuritv, can send its aspirations
lo heaven, while the body which it in
habits is hound down to the drudgery
of earth. “poems, and systems ot
theology and philosophy, which have
excited attention in. the world, have,
been wrought at the work-bench, and i
amidst the toils of the held.” you
will allow that true self-elevation, is!
something wholly separate from the
spirit of self-sufliciency. it must be
founded on unaffected humility and on a
deep consciousness ot weakness and
imperfection, which continually re-]
quires fresh accession of knowledge 1
and strength from that source where;
alone they aie to he found. self-ele-j
vation also, stands directly opposed to|
self-righteousness. it cannot indeed
be begun without a high sense of the
moral dignity of out nature; but it
cannot] be earned un and matured,
without a modest tear ot lapsing from
this dignity. tins tear will prompt toj
prayer, to watchfulness, and to inward
conflicts w ith those elements that war
against the soul.’ to these conflicts
all men, whether high or low, r i c 4 or
poor, black or white, are summoned,
and for these conflicts a!l men are
more or less prepared, by the ideas of,
god, ofchnsf, and of duly. fellow-
christian, you have long beheld vour
lallow-citize is biassed by an unholy
prejudice against you, and have sorely
tell its chilling influence it opposes
barriers to that outward elevation which
doubtless of value in its place, and
winch ought to be as accessible to you j
the north star.
as to vour neighbours. but do not
despair, “malica’ has, it istrue. “long
been busy with her tares;” but bene
volence is now busy in separating them
from the wheat her task may. be
tedious, but in tune it will be accom
plished. she calls upon you to assisi
her. she exhorts you to “silence tin
tongue” and stay the hand of nialict
“by a blameless hie she woult
have you stand forth tn tine eye ol tilt
world, which is beginning to do soim
reverence to poor insulted africa, a
her worthy, her high representatives
disappoint not our friends either or
this side of the atlantic, or on that
forfeit not your own self respect. be
individually anxious to become indus
trious in vour habits, virtuou- in your
actions, and self-governed in vr-v
thoughts, and you wi*! ahortl> ivy
ed upon collectively, as an improving,
well-ordered population, moving on
equally with others, in intellectual,
inoral and social progress. the inter
est which 1 feel in your making this
progress, naturally leads me to an
enumeration of some few plain duties,
the calm, thoughtful discharge of
which, tends to the highest elevation
of tin* human character, and it is a
gratification to me to avow in this place
an honest conviction that those whom
1 am now addressing are as capable as
we ;»e, of attaining to this elevation.
you must not expect to learn anything
new by going over this ground with
me; but all classes of men whether
high or low, rich or poor, colored or
white, require “line upon line, and
precept upon precept,” to keep them
in a state of progression. it is no
part of the object now in uew to
speak individually; but if it were, no
one could affirm more truly than my
self. that this has been found to lie
home truth. let me proceed first, to
urge it upon you, to make a good
choice in the few books that time,
spared from your daily occupations,
may allow you to read. i need not
say, that a very few verses in the
new testament, descriptive of the ac
tions and teachings of our common
lord, if dwelt upon devoutly in the
memory, would make a strong, inter
esting. deep, and beneficial impression;
and would prore of more real service
to the heart and mind, than much
more extensive reading if pursued
without the love of scripture. many a
wise thought" “garner up 1-
from the proverbs of solomon, and
many a higfi and reverential conception
of god from the psalms, and other
portions of the old testament. but 1
must be brie£ it is enough .to s«y,
that, if you tiave “pafatejp that can
taste the immorthl frtut” of the gospel*;
you will not, in the choice ot other
books, err either much or long. those j
which you find doing you harm, you:
will put away; and those which do;
you good, you will open again, and
again, and again. never be troubled
that you have not time to read much.
if you devote only ten minutes every
day to one good book, and experience
a pleas ire in doing this, be satisfied.
you are intellectually progressing.
with respect to your choice of triends,
be as careful as in that of your books.]
your national character is eminently
social and affectionate, (great heaven,
how does this enhance the cruelty of
the fiendish practice of separating
african families,) but be on vour,
guard, lest this temperament should be
a snare to you, as it has been to many
other men." a young man may be
very agreeable to you in his manners,
but very impure in his conduct. look
at his actions rather than at his man
ners. is he one that will hear know
ing' is he perfectly fair dealing is
he a good sou? 1 is he a kind brother.'
is he self-governed in his appetites and
passions? if not, if he is a youth of
corrupt character, remember that
“want of decency is want of sense,"
and have nothing to do with him as a
friend. seek the companionship of
those whose proficiency in whatever
is of good “repoit,” is greater than
your own, and whose example and
conversation may benefit and strengthen
you. if a man is honest, and will
neither flatter you or any one, attach
yourself to him; you may do it safely,
though you may perhaps occasionally
have to pardon his bluntness, lor the
sake of his fidelity observe this rule
in your choice of friends, and be satis
fied that you are morally progressing.
have you a family? be mainly
solicitous to set them an example of
truth, integrity, and kindness. a
child soon learns to love and hate what
its parents do. if you denounce ini
quity, practice virtue, and acquire
knowledge, he will. but if your mind
lies fallow, if your moral standard be
low, so in all probability, will his be.
yet while you remember what a teach
able creature a child is, forget not that
its sudden passions and stubborn hum
ours often sorely try the patience of
the teacher. be then patient, ye fath
ere, mothers, and instructors. win
the child over to good by a firm gentle
ness, and ever place the highest mo
tive to action before its mind. sav to
it, “do this, because it is right to do
it, not because you expect to be praig
ed; it may cost you something, you
mav have to give up »onit little present
pleasure to do this; yet, when it is
done, you will be approved by your
heavenly father, you will be ’btill
dearer to ine, and still happier m >our
self. you will have taken the first
step, towards being a man.” imperfect
as this our line of parental duly is, if it
should be allowed to serve any one as
a faithful remembrancer of a
parent’s office, the writer will be grati
fied and rewarded.
again, let the voice of a friend lar
“way, (and a firmer friend than the
writer vou have not, though vou have
right is ok no bex—truth 18 of no is the father of us all, and all we are rrfthrf.n
man\ more* efficient, recommend to
you the expediency, or rather the
moral dutv, of uniting your efforts to
the support and extension of the great
reformatory movement* ot the days of
slavery we will speak presently, but in
the meantime, we would glance at the
peacn and temperance question. take
i a inank, decided, public position on
1 the**? subjects. offer to join your
fellow-citizens as supporters of anti
!j war ami anti-intemperance principles,
i and if vour offers are rejected with the
i scorn of pride, or w ith the coldness of
indifference, proclaim fearlessly the
bible truth, that g *d ha* made of “one
blood all nations of men to dwell upon
all the face of the earth; and assert
that those who practically deny this
♦’••’♦k had better tbrm a new league
designated expressly
*t>v the title of the “anti-universal-
brotherhood movement." forgive
this passing sarcasm, which accords
hut ill with the lesson of forbearance,
which i have been attempting to en
force. it is indeed ‘’easier to leach
twenty to do well, than to he one of the
twenty to do our own bidding. no,
my friends; proclaim that you share
with us the capability, and a grand
capability it is, of knowing, loving,
and serving god: that you have the
same capacity that we have, of under
standing the gospel scheme of redemp
tion, and of being influenced by the
invigorating hope and divine promise
of a blessed immortality: and that you
too have the same stamina of moral
fprtitude which is necessary to build
us up as christian householders, regu
lating our da ly conduct by the truest
wisdom, and bringing up a family in
“the nurture and admonition of the
lord.” upon these common hut sacred
gifts, found the plea for mutual affec
tion and fellowship, and where it is re
jected, there let your moral nature!
show its best. prove that whoever!
does not understand the spirit of the
new testament, you do. while you;
are “men in understanding, he children
!in malice.” remembering tiiat the'
“last best fruit that comes to perfec
tion" while we are here below, is
christian politeness towards the rude,;
unwearied patience towards the over
bearing, and« well ordered gentleness;
towards the violent. here again we'
might say, that it is hard to do “one’s;
own bidding;’ but joyfully would the
writer see it dons by you, in order
that the*world might perceive that the
sons of africa, when rescued from the
deadfy influence of slavery, can afford!
us types not only of good, but of the,
best men.
secondly.—-j-<et me solicit“your at
tention to what appears to be a most'
important duty on your part, w hich is,
a faithful aiherence to tlie enemies of
pro-slavery principles and practice.
you will not expect me to enter into!
the of the respective merits
of parties in america, widely dissent
ing from each other, but all professing!
abolitionism. space would not allow!
of this, and even if it would, incorn- 1
pleteness of knowledge might tender
it desirable to abstain from dwelling
upon the subject. it is enough for my
present purpose to know (and in
knowing it, i rejoice that the question
of slavery “turns up everywhere.”
this is as it should be. not a corner
of the whole continent should slumber
here, for such slumber would betoken!
spiritual death. kvery intelligent;
i child, whether colored or white, should
|be aware that the crisis is fast airiv-i
ing, when these three propositions will;
jbe made to the people of the united!
states, out of which they must take,
their choice.—either take your place
hv the unlettered heathen, and continue
slavery; or by the jewish lawgiver,
j and bring hack servitude; or by jesus,;
the christ, and proclaim freedom.
we do not ask you, my friends, to
make the choice, for we feel that it!
must be already made. you, we hope,
would, without detecting one judas in
i vour whole body, proclaim freedom.
if any people ever were emphatically
called upon to act, you are. if ever!
there was a great occasion for acting,
this is one. if ever there was a
sincere wish uttered, it is that your
mode ot' action may he great as the

occasion. while you have hearts to j
feel, or pens to write, or tongues to
speak, or headsto think, may you think,
and speak, and write of slavery; but
in doing this, may it be your aim to!
execute the difficult, hut nuble task, of
j combining vigor with calmness, de-i
cision with forbearance, and rectitude;
with charity
but to the point proposed, namely,
a brief consideration ot the duty de
volving upon you, ot supporting the
zealous advocates of anti-slavery prin-!
ciple* the most obvious and efficient l
manner ot effecting tms purpose is, bv
the constant encouragement of anti
slaverv newspapers, and other publi-!
cations of the same character, and
more particularly by uuwaveiing sup-
port given to those papers edited by
colored gentlemen. that those should
fail, not through their own dement, but
through your unfaithfulness to} the
cause vghich they advocate, would re
fleet that dishonour upon von, from
which we trust that you will ever
1 keep yourselves unspotted. i have 1
been rejoiced to hear, that there are'
several papers edited by men of con-j
siderabic talent, from among your-j
selves, and thousands join you heart
and hand, in wishing them abundant
l i honour and succes* in their {editorial
1 labours. by keeping up your alien-'
tion to these, and to alt anti-slavery
1 journals, you will contribute largely
towards keeping up agitation on that l
i question, which ought to be, and which,
r thank god, i», the question in your;
s laud. while a single man is chained, j
i while a single woman w flogged, while]
rochester. n. y., friday. july 13. 1849.
)f a single infant is sold, nsver let thf
agitation on slavery drop, never, never,
never! you are not bound to approve
t of all that anti-slavery editors say, bul
t you are bound, as far as time allows,
i to know what they do say. you are
not bound to subscribe to all the inea
sures of the abolitionists, but you are
i bound to know what these measures
r are. it would be unreasonable toj ex
pect jierfection, either in the matter or
spirit of their articles, and, indeed,
sensible and earnest writers would far
t rather have a tree and judicious crit
ieism passed upon their productions,
i than that their readers should be of
i that class which would devour the
"total grist unsifted, husks fand all.”
i by constantly receiving and reading
the papers, that new journals
on this topic started up in new places
every week.) you would soon be com
pletely “up to the watchword,” which
i with you, to a man, should be—eman
cipation. you may not need this
friendly exhortation, either from power
i: lul advocates, or from the more hum
ble one who now addresses you; and,
it not needed. i pray your excuse for
having troubled you with it; then will
you agree with me in thinking, that
if there is truth at all in the expres
sion, tliai ‘'nature has attached a
curse to a pause,”' it is true, most true,
in tlie case of the freedom movement.
a pause might be its death; give it,
then, only “breathing time, and to it
again.” you believe, you feel, you
know, that your pursuit is an honour
able one. prosecute it w ith consisten
cy, steadiness, and vigour. if you
cannot at present be exalted in your
position in society, you may be exalted
in your thoughts; you may manifest
j one characteristic of a great mind,
which is, being true to a great idea.
let that idea be—emancipation.
but here, how necessary is it for you
to remember our saviour's command,
fto be “wise as serpents, but harmless
las doves.” show not such distrust ol
a holy cause, as to tarnish your pro-!
motion of it, by the use of unholy
means. strenuously oppose every
species of physical violence, and have;
j magnanimity and candour enough, to
attribute good motives to those who
profess abolikionism, but who yet do
not at present take so decided a part
in this vital question, as would be ac
cording to your sense oj” what is right.
every anti-slavery sentiment, even 'if
iitbe of u feeble character, tends
render slave-holding disreputable,
this is a grand point. when the slave
holders perceive that, as.a body, they
are dally getting into bgd odour, with
the reflecting and the just- rest assured
that, as a body, a few, all praise bn to
them, are doing this,) they will exert
themselves to devise means tor elevat
ing the position of their slaves into
that of free labourers; and rest assured
also, that, as in this case as well as in
every other, where the will is there is
the way, it will not be long before the
slaveholders, together with you, will
shout—emancipation.
(to fa continued.)
c.h re.ipondence of the americau'statesinau.
tiie national domain.
washington, may 4, 1?<49.
there is one branch of human ac
tivity here that rarely falters or flags.
i refer to the infernal business of
trafficking in men and women, hotly and
soul. east monday week,there arrived
in the morning train from baltimore,
from thirty to forty persons, who had
been brought up in maryland, lor the
southern market, by the hyenas ot our
dishonored race, who lend themselves
to that abhorred occupation. seven or
ten years ago they would have been
driven in their irons up the great fed
eral av enue to seventh-street and then
wheeled through that street to willi-i
a in's pen. now they were quietly j
put into seven hacks and carried over
there. this company was chiefly made j
up of young men and women the sons j
and daughters, the brothers and sisters
of somebody! last monday an omni
bus crowded with a similar group of
persons, came by the way of george
town, through the upper ward of the
citv crossing over on to a somewhat re
tired street that passes the south tront
of the president’s house —sometimes
called the back of it and made its way
tooneof the pens—williams i pre
suine. as far as my information ex
tends. this company was picked up in
the vicinity of leesburgh, \a. proba
bly. on the same day and about the
same hour a carry-all passed through
the streets having a white wretch, as a
driver.aud a sad looking colored woman
with two children on the back seat.
these too, were deposited in one of the
pens, for tranportation to richmond,
and ’eventually to the far south. a
week a»o to day, a stout, noble looking
vouug man was brought into the city in
handcuffs, by a rascal, who prowls
about the upper part ot maryland, as a
broker for the slave traders. shall i
proceed? good god’ have we not al
ready reached high noon of the nine
teenth christian century- has not
chattlehood been revolutionized out of
europe lor a long time, and proscribed
1 by all governments there' has not the
bey of tunis abolished it »n his juris
diction for the “glory ot humanity
as he says? has not the imperial turk,
too, suppressed the slave markets: bul
here we are.republwan*—lcinrnocraui
up to the chin, with slave kennels under
our noses, with slave breeders and tra
ders unhung all around us, with an ex
ecutive steeped to the lips in the pollu
tion of slavery, and ready to forecast
ito his utmost tor its extension and per
petuity! “how long, o lord how
long!” when shall the end be? l*t
ithe generous hearts of the north fix
i the day, pass the decree and abide by
it! there will not be wanting num
bers here to exult in a consumuiatioi
so “devoutly to be wished.”
however jagged the surface of so
i ciet v may look .there is one source ot un
-failing satisfaction. eternal justice wil
have its course he, who will no
yield to its fair claims, shall either nov
or hereafter endure its penalties. it is
the very stuff upon which the throne o
the universe stands fast. to set asid«
its demands, or postpone the rigor of it!
i exactions when violated, is a thing im
possible. it is the most worthy o
thought and observation, what widely
different results will ultimately b<
reached,by a state or community,by the
embodying of justice, in four lines ot i
statute, or the omission to do so. for
example look at maryland. a wit!
ering, shrivelled shell of a state—with
out developement, without enterprise,
i without popular intelligence or energy,
without people in short. her lands
lying in the wild, unreclaimed state, or,
if otherwise, exhausted, w orn out and
i valueless, a heavy debt and taxation
upon her, without the magnanimity to
incline her, even at this late hour to
do justly by her poor laboring people,
what can she do but perish? she has
robbed her laborers of their wages and
now writhes under the penalty of vio
lated justice. there is no escape for
her, except only in a return to right and
duty. let us see a little how the ac
count stands. take seventh-street in
this city, pursue very nearly a north
course, and fifty-five or fifty seven
miles will bring you to the line of penn
sylvania. for the first twenty miles
you pass a country rather inclined to
level, though in many places undulat
ing, and lying now in wide-spread,
worn-out or neglected old fields. a
bused and sorrowing nature cries out,
through every rood of the soil, against
the ruthless wretches, who trample
down her laws, by the blood stained ex
actions of oppression. id passing the
rest of the way the surface becomes
beautifully rolling; the fresher and less
exhausted by bad usage. for all in
the upper part of maryland is naturally
aline country —picturesque—u quick,
susceptible soil, if not particularly
strong and enduring. the fanning
purposes, arc all on the side of this
section of maryland, over new eng
land. with an abundant supply of
fine wat£r courses, a soil well adapted
tq making good and cheap roads, or an
exhaustless stock of timber, just eight
for the construction of plank roads,
this whole section can qlways coks
inand a high market either at washing
ton or baltiniore, within twenty to thir
ty
with every reasonable, natural ad
vantage on their side what is the pres
ent condition of things among this peo
ple. in the first place they have no
roads, that are regularly made and
kept in repair. they are just what is
passing over them good, had, or indiff
erent. there are in fifty-two miles dis
tance, only three little structures visi
ble, apparently intended for public
worship, excepting in a village to be
mentioned directly. there are no
more than three small school-houses to
be seen all the way with the above e.v-
i ception. with the exception of one
flock of cows in a barn-yard, there is
not a well-bred, respectable looking ox
,or cow, to be seen for forty miles.
their heads, horns, hoofs and tails con
stitute by far the heaviest quarter of
these degenerated animals. scarcely
any sheep are to be seen. poor, halt
ing old horses, from two to six on each
place, make up the principal part of the
stock. the sharp-nosed, shad-shaped
dirty black and white pigs, per
haps ought not to be forgotten, in the
j inventory of “goods and effects.”
but a single fact—the price of land
tel s the whole story. on the road,
within twenty miles of the city, one of
the highest markets in the country,lands
are sold from two to seven dollars an
acre. a body of eleven hundred acres,
fifteen miles only from ashing ton,
was sold only a few weeks since for two
i thousand dollars! that was rather low
—the w'ood was chiefly cut off. all on
further, where the soil is fresher and
less worn, the better sort of farms are
sold at ten and twelve dollars an acre
including buildings, which are often
newish and respectable, and all within
twenty five miles ot baltimore. in this
distance there is but one single village
westminister, the shire town of
carroll county. in that there are two
or three small churches and one school
house. i must stop.
but let me ask a single qustiou if
maryland at the outset had simply in
four lines, declared all her people “free
and equal,” in the eye of the law. does
anv mortal roan suppose she would
now* be one whit behind massachusetts,
in w hat goes to make up the substantial
elements of greatness, prosperity,
yrowth, development injustice rank
and foul is her crime. the penalty is
upon her. let others be warned in
“time! save the already free from the
blight and ruin of slavery.
frum the liberator
james k. polk.
wm. lloyd garrisox, esq
sir —happening, by accident,-to
glance over your contemptible sheet, i
found, among the editorial matter, a
j base calumny upon our late lamented
ex-president polk. to you, sir, as
ij editor of c.£ paper, belongs the credit
■j of that article. i suppose (and your
sentiments guarantee such a aupposi
tton you to be a man of narrow mmd,
.’little soul, and no heart;—a man pos
t sessed of qualities heretofore allotted
only to the lowest order of the canine
r race. 1 will not enter into an elaborate
t argument to prove the falser of your
t statement. ail honest men, whatever
may be their political prejudices, join
in praise of mr. poik’s many extraor
dinary virtues, and lamentations lor his
sudden and untimely decea-se his
administration was the most important
and successful one in our country’s
era; which the condition of the coun
try will attest. i would advise you,
sir, to seek a refuge m some remote
corner, or to hide your head in a sack,
protected from the gaze of an indig
nant people; for the aigj.t of your con
temptible visuge might lead them to
that which, 1 will admit, would be
rather ungentlemanlv in them, and ex
ceedingly unpleasant in you. 'dill.
i am inclined to think, were i in bos
ton, i should apply the lash, instead ot
the pen; or, perhaps, prepare you a
suit which would, at once, class you
among ‘the feathered tribe.’
i remain, sir, with feelings of indig
nation. to the end of life,
v our constant enemy,
j g. gibson, jr.
|cf the penmanship of jas. g.
gibson, jr.,’ is uncommonly legible
and bold; he pays his postage, and
this is to his credit as our constant
enemy’; and he states pretty bluntly
and without equivocation what he feels,
and thus indicates a quality of direct
ness in hrs composition that we very
highly appreciate. deliver us from
all cant and circumlocution' to be
sure, we have no fancy for tiie spirit of
ruffianism, or the dialect of billings
gate; still, he is not the worst man in
the world, who gives full utterance to
ins sentiments, even though they may
be despicable and brutal in tho ex
treme.
mr. gibson is intensely indignant at
out- estimate of the character and ca
reer of the late james k. polk. there
is nothing in his epistle to induce us to
alter or modify that estimate, but very
much to confirm it. who or what he
is, we do not know, aside from the lone
of his letter; but when he talks of ap
plying the lash, and a coat of tar and
feathers, it plainly enough evinces
intimate connection or acquaintance
with the slave-drivers of the south, and
tiiat he is just the one to be the eulo
gist of .lames k. polk, the enslaver of
his fellow-creatures, the dealer in hu
man flesh, the v iolator of the constitu
tion, and the invader of mexico tor the
express purpose of enlarging the do
minions of the slave power, whose
memory with the wicked shall rot.—
ed. lib.

blacks in brazil.
of the seven millions comprising the
entire population of brazil, three mil
lions are estimated to be negro slaves;
two and a half millions aboriginal in
dians and free neg; resi
due, a million and a hun, wnuts. the
social state of the population is not
marked by the distinction of color, so
operative elsewhere in the production
of classes, but only by that of freedom
and servitude. the blacks have ac
cess to all, and are in possession of
many offices of honor and trust, and
engage in every department of busi
ness. the white race and the black
meet on terms of equal equality in so
cial intercourse, and intermarry with
out scruple, provided there exists no
obstacle in the relative position in life
of the respective parties. a writer in
the north american review knew ‘the
wife of an admiral, whose hue was the
darkest among afric’s daughters,’ and
mentions the dismay of an american
diplomatic agent, at the entrance of a
venerable jet black colonel into the
court, where he had just undergone his
presentation.’ we have the same au
thority for the fact, that not long since
the brazilian ambassador to england
vjas a mulatto, and iliat at the present
time, a large majority of the army, us
well as privates, is of african
jour. com.
winter in spitsbergen.
the single night ot this dreadful
country begins about the joth of octo
ber; the sun then sets, and never ap
pears until the 10th of february. a
glimmering indeed continues some days
after the setting of the gun; then suc
ceed clouds and thick darkness, broken
by the light of the moon, which is as
luminous as in england, and during the
long night shines with unfading lustre.
the cold strengthens with the new
year, and the sun i» ushered in with
an unusual severity of fro.->t. by the
middle of march, the cheerful light
grows strong. arctic foxes leave their
holes, and the sea-fowl resort in great
numbers to their brooding places. the
sun sets no more after the 1 ith of may
i the distinction of day and night is then
lost. in the height of summer, the
sun has heat enough to melt the tar on
the decks of ships; but from august its
power declines—it sets fast \ftertbe
middle of september, day is hardly
distinguishable, and by the end of oc
tober, takes a long farewell of this
country. the earth becomes frozen,
and winter reigns triumphant
ftoin li*erp«jot mrrr«n t
crime and p!ni*!!mr:!st in
england.
it may, perhaps, be regarded as ra
ther a fortunate circumstance, that mr.
ewart did not succeed, when he last
moved parliament on the subject, in
carrying hit proposition for the aboli
tion of capital punishment. sure we
are, that, if such a measure had,
twelve mouths ago, received the sanc
tion ot the legislature, a popular re
action in favor of a return to a san
guinary penal code, would have been
the inevitable result of that ulmmung
increase of murder in its moat aggra
rated and atrocious forms, which the
closing spring assizes have j«** r
livealedto the peblic eye. "seethe
john plck.
whole no.hi.
consequence*, it would have been
said, o! a morbid phdauihropv thie
is your work, philosopher* of'perfect*
bilitv* w ith the disappearance ot’ the
gallons, bloody crime is rampant; and
society lias no course hut to «*eek re
tuge under the shelter of a i draconian
code
it is, the criiumal calendar hap
pens to teem specially with that class
ot crime which alone, lot some veara
past, it hns been tisuai to visit with
death-punishment 'l'his tact might
reasonably, we think, serve to restrain
the note of triumph m which the ad
versaries ol the humanitarian school”
as jtenal law reformers are nicknamed,
at present choose to indulge. the
murders of the season, however, are,
by some of our ingenious eotempor
aries, dilated upon, with the view ol
covering with shame and much confu
sion, not only the philanthropists,”
hut the friends of peace and retrench
ment. w ith sueii examples before
us,” says the .vornmg chrouicle, we
may well refuse to accede to tiie sug
gestion*; of tho«e who recommend us,
in a fond reliance on the sagacity or
the philanthropy of our neighbors, to
throw away the defences of military
strength, and in our transactions with
foreign states, to have recourse to no
sterner weapons than than those of ar
gument and persuasion so that, on
the reasoning of this moralist, we are
to abandon all hopes of arbitration su
perseding an appeal io arms in cases
ol international difference, because the
sensibilities ol society are occasionally
shocked by the atrocities of which some
monsters arc guilty. admirable logi
cian 1 if,” continues our contem
porary, we are ever convinced of the
reality ot such a reformation in the
principles of human nature, as would
induce us to disband our troops, and
turn our spears into priming-hooks, it
will at least not be until the sword of
justice has fallen into disuse.”
financial reforms, accordingly, must
hbolish the old hailey, before this
cytic will entertain their demand for a
reduction* of the army and navy. it
would really seem as if our cotempor
ary believed car to he the proper re
medy fur uwrdtr, and large military
armaments the moral influences by
which society is to he regenerated.
our chiet objection to capital pun
ishment and war—the latter being nei
ther more nor less than punish
ment on a national scale—is theigjten
dency to familiarise the public mincf*
with deeds of violence and {flood, 'com
mitted under the sanction ot v legal au
thority. in tbo superior deterrent effi
cacy of capital punishments on the
passions ot the* criminally-disposed
classes, we do not believe. hut even
that consideration is beyond the ques
tion. nobody can doubt that if the
fear ot death deters from crime, the
fear of death by torture would still more
deter few, however, will advocate a
return to the barbarous punishment* of
our ancestors. and why? simply be
cause what we gained in preventive
penal power, would be lost in the bru
talizing influences which a resort lo
such repressive means could not fail to
exert on the general community. our
opponents, therefore, are constrained
to confess, that terror is not the only
element of punishment, and that a more
enlarged expediency must regulate
our views of the question. the sole
difference between us and them is,
that we draw the line sooner than they
do. they stop only at death by tor
ture; we stop at the simple deprivation
of life. we are consecutive; they are
inconsecutive w e hold morality to be
the measure and limit of all punish
ment; the only boundary they acknow
ledge is the near expediency of its de
terring effect on the criminal mind.
why, then, ot. their own principles,
should even cruelty and torture be
permitted to bar its operation*
some may deem if inopportune thus
to meet the question of capital pun
ishment at a time when public indig
nation has been so naturally and justly
excited by a series of atrocious murders
altogether unparalleled in the aunajs of
modern crime. we think differently.
it is never more necessary to keep prin
ciple steadily in view than when passion
tends to lead us astray, if the popular
instinct that would prompt the multi
tude to teat limb by limb the perpetrator
of the i,eveson-»treet murders is to be
trusted—it here we must recognize the
v<>r !)ri ;n the t or hopuli —why, then,
there is an end of the question, and the
legitimacy of the i*uttaltni* is at once
established we would not, indeed
wish to excluded from human na
ture the impulsive resentment against
a criminal which the thought of his
crime ncccessarily arouses. hut we
would guard against these feelings
being allowed to iwllueiice crim
inal legislation. such a result, in the
present mood of the public mind is not
improbable, and. therefore, it is that
we enter our solemn protest against the
atrocity of crime being supposed to leg*
itimate the necessity of capital punish
ment.
there w as a singular problem among
the stoics, which ran to this purpose
‘when a man says, l i lie,’ does be
or docs he not if he lies he speaks
the truth; it he speaks the truth, he
lie*.’ many were the books written
upon this wonderful problem. cbrv sip
pus favored the world with 110 less
than six* «nd fhiletus studied himself
to death in h»s uiu endeavors to solve
.it
a complication of disorder what 
did —-she of asked a simple neighbor. *of what did i die
a complication of disorders, replied his
friendd—‘ how do you describe this complication *he died,' answered tbs other, *ef
two phy**eiafit, so apothecary, and s surgeon
frederick douglass land charles lenox remond will visit detroit, mich., on wed-
oesday, 4th juiy, snd will hold three meet
ings in that city, wednesday, thursday, and
friday, 4ih, sth. and 6th.
they will spend sunday and monday, bth
and 9th july, at battle creek, mich.
thov will be in chicago, hi., on thurs
day, friday. saturday, and sunday, 12th.
13th. 14th, and 15th. and will hold meetings j
on each evening.
they will be in sandusky city, ohio, on
thursday, friday, and saturday, the 19th,
90th, and 21 at july.
they will be at (irian plain, ohio, sun
day. 22d july
they will be in columbus on the 25th
july and will reach cincinnati on the 27th
july, and will remain there till after the first
of august.
the friends of freedom in all of these
places are earnestly requested to make the
necessary arrangements fur meetings. —».d.
receipts for the n. y, state vigilance
committee, since april 28, 1849.
from gerrit smith, peterboro, n. y..
$5oo free fungi. church, cazenovia,
y.. 10 f riend* in lmklaen, y., per
rev. s. carver, $lo, f riends in ayuga
co., n. per s. marriott, $l5, friends
in cazenovia, n. v., per a. kingsbury, $9;
j. phelps, griffin's .mills, si* fiee church
and friends m sherburne, y. v., per rev.
j. w. fox, $9 37 friends in augusta,
y $5 1h (’olid, at an s. convention
at eagle harbor, v v hv if. anderson,
$6 \v k. whining, new york city, $5,
j. l. ensign, new york city, $5 t. c.
fanning. games, new \ork, $4; j. hag
inan, lag man's mills, y., $3;
urainard. st. albans, t., $2: friends in
s. argvje, n. y., $3 friends in little
york, s. y., $4 w. h. pillow, n. y.
city, $2 50 n. houghton, virgil, n. y.
$2; friends in otisco, n. y., $1 55 j.
ny. north, syracuse, n. y. $1; a. clax
ton, pliilada. $1 t. fay. n. y. city,
$2 cash, 75 cts. from sale of books, $2
50 collected at anniversary meeting, (in
cluding $2o from hon. in. jackson, new
ton, mass.,) $b5 98 total, $096 83.
the recent liberal donation of the president
of the committee has encouraged the execu
tive board to believe that his example would
be followed by others; and they have accord
ingly made arrangements and engagements to
prosecute the objects of the organization on an
enlarged and liberal scale. to carry out
these plans, it is indispensable that all who
sympathize with us shot id aid us by their
contributions. the hoard cannot and will
not involve the committee in pecuniary res
ponsibilities, w hich they are unable to meet in
a prompt and business-like manner. we have
begun we!!—vvhether we are to go on or give
up, depends now upon those who are not
ashamed to be known as the friends of the
slave.
wm. harmed, treasurer,
new york, june 22, 1549. no. 61 john*
sireet.
i he following letter has been received from
jin active friend and coadjutor, on a visit to
the nation's capital, and it is earnestly imped
will be read with interest, and produce a
practical effect upon our friends who have not
yel responded to the appeal of the committee:
washington, june, 1848.
mr. w m harned, dear sir :—lt gave
tne decided pleasure to hear that you were
appointed treasurer of the n. y. state vig
ilance committee. 1 have also to thank you
for the information in relation to the designs
and plans of your comnmtee. they are
mu»t happily calculated for efficiency, and to
afford rebel to the disttessed victims of op
pression. all you now need is the hearty co
operation of those who are represented bv
your committee, ami to whom you make
your appeal in behalf of the panting fugitive,
and the despairing bondman. one might
reasonably expect the response to be prompt
and liberal, from those who for 12 or 15 years
have trained themselves to consider the s ave
as the most abused man on earth, and them
selves, if not his only friends, at least the
most reliable and trustworthy.
you inform me that gerrit smith has sem
you a draft for five hundred dollars
noble act of a noble man 1 all the world
cry out spontaneously—" that is just like
genii smith the world is ever ready t<
applaud such acts of disinterestedness ami
generosity. i only wish that the professing,
talking friends of the slave and the fugitive,
could be induced to prepare themselves to d<
such deeds, "according to their several
ability.’’ if, however, instead of that, thev
make mr smith’s great liberality an occa
sion to indulge in indolence, and tight
handed selfishness, it wdl- prove alike a
calamity to the slave, and a disgrace 1o them
selves ido not believe that ihey will do so;
atleast, i should not, if i bad not learned
from you that less than one hundred and fifty
dollars tins been received, in reply to you:
circular, from all oilier persons in your em
pire state, exclusive of what has been collec
ted in the cities of new york and brooklyn
is that not inexpressibly mean and pitifult
by your committee must have at least five
thousand dollars, to do ihe work, in any decent
manner, which ought to be done tfie pteseni
vear.
how very different it is to stand at a dis
tance, and read the reports of .slavery in the
newspapers, and to lie here, on the spot, ai
eye and ear witness to the hellish deeds ni
every day occurrence at the cool north
one can read, with some composure, of tin
selling and rending asunder of slave families
in washington, or new orleans. hut tak
your stand here, and witness the daily trans
actions of oppn soon—listen to the talcs ot
agony and woe that are floated on evert
breeze. that is altogether another affair i
wiaii that a were allowed for me to state in
detail the consolation and relief it is in th«
power of your committee to administer, if on
ly the needed means are afforded them b\
friends. hut 1 am not, of course, a
liberty to go into minute particulars on tin?
delicate subject. \,,ui friends know why.
andwnl certainly be satisfied with genera
81-itemem;. i may say, however, that sum
h*ve been instituted, under the directum ol
your committee, in the cucuii court of ih
district, in fourdisi net cases, to recover tin
freedom of 13 or it person* uobeisunr
from the lawyers that all of these eves an
isitly entitled to success, and in ail prolmbil
ity will be decided favorably. is the disei.
thralment, liberation, freedom of i-.urtee'
young persons an unimportant matter j, j
not worth an effort—a contubutiou o
course it will cost lubor and money some,
body must (•ertoriu the one, and s.*mebod\
must pay the other. it eeema to me mat you
friends will come forward, if again j. nundei
oftheir duty, and of the slave's claims upoi
lh«m. "hungry—athirst naked- 3 ck—
stranger in prison” wiil they nut com
to the relief of "the least ol tlmsc breth
ren 1”
1 hope that you will re-direct your circu
lar in every instance where it has not beei
responded to, once every month, until you rt
ceive at any rate a manly answer you ar
c*i7<wnly entitled to that at least the recen
triumph in drayton’s case is worth a thousam
times all the money arid privation it has cost
y *?t how tardy vc«re ihe fr,ends of liberty n
giving to ud m defraying the expense in iha
instance 1 tney will sure'y hear, if you »h
onlv raise your voice of appeal vo the trunipt
loae of necesvity
yours to; tfte londilß i,
ftlave case ta the siprnm coart of
peaaarlvaala.
a mui wu brought to the cumberland
county court, pa., for enticing away alares
from maryland, huboring them, dtc.. and
undp| lh «*>»rge of the court, a judgment
of $b,ooo «u recovered. tbe following
is an extract from judge coiltsa'a optnioo.
it it interesting, at showing the present
bearing of law in the state of pennsylvania,
i oo fugitives from slavery and those who
wiould assist them in their nghiful effurts to
tegain their god given manhood there is
any amount of winding back ard forward,
i and round and round tixe subject of human
rights, in this document; but it is perhaps
as honest and siraighiforward as anything
i coming t tom a political lawyer can be ex
pected to be.
'(his action is instituted at common law,
leans upon it for support and invokes the aid
of its principles to sustain its objects and re
sults giving to the testimony most ample
range, it amounts to this and no more that
the alleged slaves had been removed from
arkansas to the state of maryland in feb
ruaty, 1846, from which slate they escaped
i during the mgbi, in october, 1547, john m.
stake, the relative of the plaintiff, below,
their agent and witness, staled that he would
rather have their value, then recapture the
fugitives; two of whom were men, one with
a stiff arm two women, three boys, and the
rest, amounting to thirteen in all, were girls
three of ihem were at so tender an age that
the rest were obliged to carry them. coal,
a negro, and witness for the plaintiff, testifies
i that he found these persons in chambersburg,
and took them away a> a friend to help
them along, and prevent them from beiug
taken. t hey told him, as he testified, that
they had been slaves in maryland that they
were to be sold, and that to prevent their
sale, they made their escape. he took them
in the night to slnppcrisburg, from that to
miller's furnace, and finally to kaufman, and
put them in his bain in the morning, and shut
the door, and called kaufman, who inquired
what was the matter. coal told him to come
to the barn ami he should see. \v hen coal
showed imn the negroes in the barn, kauf
man told him to take them away, more than
once, but finally agreed to let them stay till
night, and agreed to give them nou.ething to
i eat. coal then went to butler, a negro,
i and gave his wile notice that he, coal, wished
fto go home. that evening the negroes w ere
1 hauled away in kaufman’s wagon but to
what place is not allied in the evidence.—
the wagon v\ as returned m the night; who
was the driver is not staled; but it appears
not to have been kaufman, w ho was standing
at the end of the barn when the wagon
started. several neighbois, having heard
that negroes were there, went to see them
some were witnesses and others not. guts
j hall, a witness tor the plaintitf, testified, on
his cross-examination, that john m. stake
offered him one hundred dollars if he would
i swear that daniel kaufman hauled the ne
groes away and he said he did’nt care a
damn about the negroes if he could get kauf
man. tins was said at tnncle spring
tavern wm. biown and samuel crabti
were present.
1 will ask, however, that the true question
in this aspect of the case ought to be, and is,
whether hi the state of pennsylvania a ciii
i zen who gives a cup of cold water and a
morsel of bread to famishing women and
children, and permits ttiem to rest a tew
hours in his barn, when they are supplicants
to his mercy, and even gives them a hit in
his wagon, even if it should turn out that
they are fugitives from slavery to freedom,
does by that ofler of mercy and compassion
break the law, and make himself liable for
iheir puce in the mart where men, women
and children aie bought and so d whether
lie is bound tu let them perish on his own
land, or drive thuni off to die on the land ol
his neighbor are they outcasts from the
law of mercy and humanity, although they
have within them that rav fr.. ivvimty,
which we call a soul, and tu
hopes and fears, to agony aim j
but we turn to another aspect of the case
one winch presents a question which concerns
the sovereignty of the state—the indepen
dence of its tribunals and the chatacter of tht
common law—a question which overmaster*
all minor points p esented on the record.
the defendant pleaded to the jurisdictior
j of the court.
in 17d0, the legislature, in gratefui com
miseraliuu of her then certain prospect ol
escaping from the house of bondage and the
hand of the oppreasoi and as the preamble
to the act rentes, “in consequence thereof,
i being freed iiom the narrow prejuuices which
they had imbibed, and feeling their heart?
enlarged with kindness, and benevolence to
s men of all conditions and nations,” abolished
f slavery within her borders as to all people
thereafter born within her limits from
that time she has been deemed and taken as
a lree stale, and as such assented to the
compact of union.
slavery, then, is recognized and enforced
here by virtue of that compact alone. the
voice of her own policy proclaims, so far shall
thou go but no farther.—the language of
that compact is—“no person held to servic«
hi one state under the laws thereof, escaping
into another, shall, in consequence of any
law or regulation therein be discharged from
such service or labor, but shall be delivered
up on ihe claim of the party to whom such
service or hibor may be due.” upon claim
made by the persons to whom service is due,
the fugitive shall be delivered up. to w hom
shall tins claim be made* undoubtedly to
ilie person or persons who shall have the
alleged slave in custody, or who shall at
tempt to protect him from the owner to whom
ihe services are due. and as by the compact,
ilie slave is not discharged from hm service
by escaping into a free state, the owner or
ins authorized agent may pursue and take
••ini, w ithout not or breach of the peace, by
manucaption or reprisal, in any place where
ihe compact is obligatory, just m the same
manner as if the recaption was in the slave
territory.
this cause ut action, good or bad, is with
in the jurisdiction of the united slates’
courts, for congress have power to pass all
laws necessary to make the claim efficacious
and commensuiaie with the constitutional
provision. but u must be done thiough the
court over which congress have power, and
through their instrumentality otheiwisethe
claim might be rendered abortive, by the de
cision ol the slate courts, pursuing their
own local p&licy. the claim ought, prima
rily, to be a>sefled in courts whose decisions
should conclude ihe subject of dispute, and
>oi in a foreign forum, adverse to the whole
process it it pursues the feelings and policy
ns own laws, and the principle of the
common law. the provisions of the act ol
i,digress must be pursued in the tribunals
•i the l lifted states. then they meet with
jo warfare bv local legislation, or municipal
peculiarities.
but outside the compact we breathe more
freeiy. e leel the genial influence ut tne
common law on this subject. the principle
-prurig fresh and beautuul and perfect from
ihe mind of lord mansfield, to the great case
»f the negro somerset, that by the cummor.
aw, a slave, of whatever country or color,
the moment he was on english ground, be
ame tree—endued wi;h sanctity of reason
i fus case was drcided bfore tbe revolution
*nd became ihe common law of this state.
alwavt saving and excepting the inroadet tht
corn pact and compromise. this action, thei
professes to be founded on the principles ol
the common law. but by the principles m
.hai law, the fug lives were free the moment
when they touched the soil o| pennsylvania
all the incidents, accompaniments, and at
.ributes of bondage fell from around them
by that law, even p-*rauadmg the fugitives u,
fly, would bs oo offence to pennsylvania,
0
whatever it might be in maryland.—but the
•ct of congress in the 3d section, which
specifies 'be sets for which damages may be
recovered, and the penalty incurred, does not
mention ihst of inching negroes to tun sway;
and »e must gather the meni and intent ol
the legislative power, as well fruen what they
do not nay, aa from that w hiefa they do way.
it was ruled in the circuit court of the
l ruled s’ttes f«.r the district of ohio, that if
a slave escape to a free state, he is free ac
cording to ihe principle* of the common law,
and re-caplnrv in a free state is justified only
by the compact in the constitution, and the
act of longresa. and it was ruled in the
same case that damages lor harboring sod
cone r ling a slave in a free state are not
recoverable at common law.— yanxandt cr.
/oner. 2 d mr lean. 596
but it is intimated that although state
magistrates and judges are not compelled,
that neverthlewthey may act, if it is dot coo
irary to the policy of the slate. on this
point, there is some diversence among the
judges, but i have stated the opinion of the
majority. very well, so let it be. the poli
cy of this state is indicated in the act of 1780,
in the act of 1826, and in the feelings and
principles and government of the state.
under these circumstances, our courts are
interdicted ftom assuming a voluntary juris
diction, since the act of 1826 has been repudi
ated and thiown out of court, as the
decisions of our tribunals might, and perhaps
would be, against the claim ot the owner of
the fugitives. after full consideration, thia
court is of opinion, that an action of this
kind can only be sustained under the act of
congress of 17h3.
that, our state courts have not jurisdic
tion of action under the statute.
and the principles of the common law do
not sustain any such action in this state.
the pica to the jurisdiction is therefore
sustained, and the judgment of the court of
common picas of cumberland county, for;
$2ooo, is reversed.
the north star.
rochester, july 13, 1849
frederick dot glass. probable post
ponement of his western tour. —a letter
has j ust readied me, written at windsor, c.
w\, by a friend of .mr. douglass, stating
that he had been there for three days, sick of
a low lever and had decided not to go to
cincinnati at present. if he recovers
sufficiently, he will proceed with his proposed
tour, as far as he can, but no plan had been
finally resolved upon. the probability is,
that he wiil return to rochester as soon as
his health is sufficiently established to repdet
the fatigue of tarvelling practicable.— j. n.
the ever-gionous fourth.”
here we have it. our exchanges one
after another take up the same old song—
worn-out and threadbare, ridiculous and false.
“seventy-three years, (says one) have rolled
round since the areopagus of american
sages met in solemn council, and sent foith
to the world a document that is still a warn
ing to haughty rulers, and a beacon-light to
the oppressed.” this sounds rather lofty, but
w hat does it mean it means, i suppose,
when translated into every-day english, that
it is seventy-three years since the declaration
of indepedence was made by these united
states. this declaration also sounds lofty
well. it cuimnencee with the assertion that
“all men are created equal,” and entitled to
ceitain rights, amongst which “liberty”
stands pre-eminent w 7 hen translated by the
light of american practice, for these sixty
years, what is its reading? “all men are
not created equal but many are made by
their creator, of baser material, and inferior
origin, and are doomed nowand forever to the
sufferance of ceitain wrongs—3mongst which
is slavery to the man of colored skin
in this american republic, what is the ever
glorious fourth, but a mockery and an insult 7
year after year he hears the absurd prating
about american liberty and equal rights un
der the “beautiful folds of the star-spangled
banner," and there he stands a living and
suffering witness to american oppres
sion and wrong—the vilest that ever saw the
sun. he is at all times and in all places,
liable to insult and irremediable outrage from
bis despotic oppressors and most of all is
this the case on the day that is special!v
consecrated to “liberty and equality,” which'
very probably in white american dialect
means “filing crackers, flying flags, and!
makings noise,” as those seem to be the;
prevalent occupations on the “ever-glorious
fourth." i rejsice in american freedom, as
far as it goes. it is good to possess even a
measure of freedom and white americans
have undoubtedly a larger proportion than
most other nations. rut 1 think it would be
well hereafter, when reference is made to the;
declaration of independence, in connexion i
with the “gloiious fourth,” that a special
proviso should be inserted in the preamble,
which would make it read that “all men
(provided thev are not black) are entitled,”
&c., the affair would then at least have the
met it of consistency which at present it is very
far from possessing.— j. d.
is it reproof or encouragement i—the 1 —the
i obeilin evangelist, speaking of the recent
action of the presbyterian assembly, on the
slavery question, makes a sort of rack-torture
confession of its belief that slavery is a sin.
better so, pethaps than that it should apolo
gize for and palliate the crime. still, the way
in which it speaks is soft, soft there is a
sorrowful lack of the earnestness of heartfelt
conviction in its estimate of the action of the
assembly. says the evangelist
“our readers must judge of the morality of,
the assembly s doctrine. wec.n give our
opinion in a word. \\e would treat all gross
immoralities according to the principle that
g lit is graduated by the light sinned against;
but w'e would never admit that circumstances
of convenience or profit make any apology for
sin and we would decidedly rank slavehold
ing among gtora lmmorahtes.”
uphill work to say thus much is it not
tbiatalking about graduating guilt by the;
light sinned against,' 1 in a question of admit
ting certain persons to church fellowship—
what docs it mean it either means to imply j
that there may be some possible circumstances
in which slave folding, in this piofeaeedly
free country— in this nooo of the nineteenth
century —under the light of christianity and
civilization, may live in such gross moral
darkness, as 10 be guilty of holding a fellow
man in bondage —and yet be blameless it
either means this, or it means nothing. them
are two sboit sentences, in the new testa
ment, w hich barely poeaible this editor
has never seen—or, as they seem principally
to refer to the bodies of men, m his deep eon
eein for their souit, he may have overlooked,
though even that seems scarcely possible,
without judging him be gioasiy bpocritieal.
—thu sentences sts these “as ye would
that men should do unto you, do ye even so
to them and “love thy neighbor as thy
self it does not appear likely that any
one, even of very ordinary mental capacity
need loog study slsveholding by the light of
these two aimple text* of scripture, without
cuming to the conclusion that it is a sin against
cbustian light; and if judged of by the clear
ness of the “light sinned against,” a sin
the deepest dye. he must be a fool or worse
who can imagine any man can “love his
neighbor aa himself,” or love him at ail. or
even make the faintest attempt to do to, and
yet bold him in bondage, and aell, and
acourge, and brotify. and subject him to all
the intolerable hoirors of the slave-system.
such an extreme of absurdity it not possible
to conceive that any rational being could be
guilty of. slavery or any other sin, wonld
never be checked by such consolatory reproofs
as this of the evangelist. the writer
w ould seem to be under the impression that it is
needful for him to make some sort of apology
either to the slaveholder or to some one in
bis behalf, that christianity very absurdly
does not lend its sanction to slaveholding:
but if it did, he would willingly tell him ofit,
and embrace him as a friend and a brother.
to one who has not looked with an open
eye, and an untrammelled niiad, upas tfee
operations of the different retigious bodies
falsely called christian, in this land, and has
learned how utteily the life has been eaten
out of them, by their tampering temporising
policy—the want or weakness of their testi
mony against slavery must be utterly inexpli
cable. compare what the evangelist says
with the bold vigorous language ofthtonoßx
d. weld on the relation the bible bears to
slaveholding, and how tame it looks j. d. i
“the spirit of slavery,” says weld, “never
seeks shelter in the bible of its own accord
it grasps the ho ns of the altar only in des
peration—rushing from the terror of the aven
ger's arm. like other unclean spirits, it
‘hateth the light, neither cometh to the light,
lest its deeds should be reproved.’ goaded to
phreniy in its conflicts with conscience and
common sense, denied all quarter, and hunted 1
from every covert, it vaults over the sacred j
enclosure, and courses up and down the!
bible, ‘seeking rest and finding none.’ the
law of love glowing on every page, flashes'
around it an omnipresent anguish and des-1
pair. it shrinks from the hated light, and|
howls under the consuming touch as demons
quailed before the son of god, and shrieked,
‘torment us not.’ at last, it slinks away
under the types of the mosaic system, and
seeks to burrow' out of sight among their
shadows. vain hope its asylum is its
sepulchre its city of refuge, the city of des
truction. it flies ftotn the light into the sun
from heat into devouring fire and from the
voice of god into the thickest of his thund
ers
1 1 the allda outrage.
the outrage perpetrated ugon frederick
1 douglass and his english fiiends, on board
the steamboat alidaon the north river, has
not been permitted to pass without censure
from the more respectable portion of the
american press. our readets will have
observed several condemnatory notices from
exchanges copied into the north star.
this is gratifying evidence that public opinion
at the north is rapidly undergoing a change,
and encourages the cheering hope that the
time is not far distant when the negro, like
other men, will he judged of by his merits not
by his color. letters have also been re
ceived from various quarters, expressing
sorrow that strangers should be subjected to
such an insult on american soil, and the un
mitigated contempt of the writers for the
perpretrators of it. a letter, dated bristol,
pa., july 4th, says—‘‘ln the pennsylvania
freeman of 21st june, i saw with great dis
gust an account you gave of the insolent and
i unwarrantable treatment you received trom a
gang of male and female ruffians, whilst on
board a steamer. from the description given,
let me guess who they were western and
southern shopkeepers, truckers, hucksters
and gamblers, who have the impudence tc
style themselves merchants. those fellows
and their women had no doubt met wtifc
j rebuffs in their walks, which put them out o
humour. going home with their fingers ir
their mouths—the men because northern
merchants would no longer trust them, and
the women because our civilized ladies were
i disgusted with their vulgarity. if these men
thieves, horse-thieves, half-cut ladies, and
clowns would only slay at their own blood
stained homes, and not profane our honesi
and decent land by their filthy footsteps, the)
would save us loathsome feelings and heavj
losses.” our correspondent is probably righ
in his estimate of the character of those “rnal<
j and female raffians/' i truet for the sake o
northern decency and honor, that he is
there is a aimilax case given elsew here
however, under the head “column of alroc;
ties,” which would seein to implicate otheri
1 besides southerners, in insane and wicket
colurphobta practices. let the man, out o
a grogshop, who can find any excuse or palh
•lion, either in common sense, commor
humanity, or common equity, for insulting
or abusing a human being because his coloi
is rather different from that of himself anc
his relatives,—let that man speak. it woulc
be quite gratifying to learn that the persom
who are the victims of colorphobia are noi
totally insane and unaccountable beings. ii
the smnllest glimmering of reason can b«
shown to linger in tbeir occiputs, one nighi
proceed to argue with them, and probabij
might show to their satisfaction the miserable
inconsistency and irrationality of their conduct
as it ia—no reason given—no excuse made
—not a shadow of palliation glimmering
thiough the thick haze of this m.aty absurdi
ty, the man who has bis senses about him,
can only look and pity, wonder, and some
times laugh at the “lantiatic tricks” of tb<
colorphobia lunatics.— s. d.
buying a mother's freedom.—a colored
rain name john douglass, who was once s
slave in washington, and hss been for some
time engaged m this establishment, as a press
man, has the satisfaction of seeing bis mo
ther, whom he left a slave a few years since,
free woman. john was unwilling to have
his mother remain in slavery, and has been
endeavoring for some ume to raise money
eoough to boy her from her master thu
repaired that $9oo should bs raised and
be went about to obtain the means from bene
voieot citizens, —to which effort we are glad
jolearo he has hew successful. by paying
$3oo, and giving security for the remainder,
the master consented to give her freedom,
andahe baa now arrived in this eity. joan
hope* to raise the additional sum to perfect
bis mother'* title to tbo inalienable birthright
of every american ettnee/?ee*. i>mecrmt.
i have been requited, by jokjt 1> vetaet
who is well known in thia city, to bo a very
intelligent and respectable man, to c*fy the
abott paragraph, and do so with pleasure.
i may take this opportunity of observing,
however, that ido not, in any shapecr man
ner, approve or wish to have anything to do
with the purchase of slaves 1 rejoice that
another has been added to the number of
those who are released from the binds of
oppression and the power of the taskmaster;
but i regret that any one should find it neces
sary, or consider it advisable to reaott tothia
means for accomplishing that result. i can
not allow the right of any human being to
claim payment for permitting any other hu
man being io go where be or she desires to
go. it is a natural nght of every man and
woman in god's universe. this woman had
just as much right—neither more not 'ess—
to ask the man who made the monstrous
claim to hold her as his property, for payment
that he might be allowed to go where he
would, as he had to make this demand upon
her. besides, every act of purchase enhances
the market value of human chatties; and
makes the monsters cling to their jropfrty
with a more tenacious grasp i would simply
advise every man, woman and child, whether
black, white, or yellow, that so long aa they
are guiltless of aiaw, vhev have a tight to
freedom. it is theirs. the idea of «yb*ng
them pay for what is tbeii own by the in
alienable gift of their creator, is most absurd,
preposterous, and heaven-insulting. let
them take what is theirs quietly and peace
ably and god help them to a good use of
it.—j. n.
international arbitration.
on the 13th of june. mr. cobden brought
forward his motion on international arbitra
tion. in the british house of commons. his
motion was—
that an humble address be presented to
her majesty, praying she will be graciously
pleased to direct her principal secretary of
state for foreign affairs to enter into com
munication with foreign powers, inviting them
to concut in treaties, binding the respective
parties, in the event of any future misunder
standing, which cannot be arranged by amica
ble negotiat on, to refer the matter in dispute
to the decision of arbitrators.”
“wild, visionary, impracticable, utopian,”
is the cry raised by the british oligarchy and
their mouthpiece, the times, against this mo
tion while lord palmerston and other whig
leaders treat the proposal with the greatest
respect,”—but they do not wish that “there
should exist an impression liiat the manly
spirit of englishmen is dead.” they do
not stop to show', however, what manliness
there is in cutiing throats and blowing out
brains, or in what w’ay those sublime acts
were not the more fit occupations of fiends
than of men. mr. cobden, in his speech,
argued, that the plan he proposed was not a
new one—that it had already been adopted on
several occasions. he instanced the case
where the united states and france referred
a dispute to england a case in which eng
land and the united states referred a dispute
to russia; one in which (he united states
and mexico referred a question to prussia;
and one in which the united states and eng
land referred a case to the king of the neth
erlands. these case* were all eminently suc
cessful. it mattered not, he said, whether hia
principle were adopted by large or small
states only let it be established, and there
would exist a guarantee for a rational, honest
and christian-like settlement of disputes, in
stead of the arbitrament of war, which could
not be better defined than it had been by jere
my bentham, when he said, that it was
mischief on the large scale.” mr. cobden’i
resolution was negatived by lord palmerston’s
moving the previous question, which was the
i most courteous mode of resisting th 3 motion.
the practicability of this made of settling
international disputes, and thus entitely ob
viating the necessity for barbarous and bloody
wars, is apparent. it is now common, and is
every day becoming more frequent in daily
life, ft does not appear to be any more diffi
cult t settle the affairs of nations by this
method, than to settle the private disputes ol
individuals. the assertion that there will be
no power to enforce the awards of arbitration,
is no argument against ii. it is true there
will be no physical power; but may there nol
be wielded in its favor a more potent weapon
than the power of the sword the moral
power of popular opinion 1 when the pnn
i ciple comes to be recognized amongst nations,
that arbitiation is the only rational mode ol
settling disputes, and that such arbitration
must be final; when a universal public opin
ion has been created tiw war is barbarous*,
inhuman and unnecessary—where will be the
difficulty war settles n<» fact—establishe*
no prin iple—proves nothing at all, except
that one nation ha» more means at its com
mand, or is perhaps more dexterous in the
use of those which it possesses, than some
other nation. it is the mere argument of the
highwayman— give me what you have in
your possession, or i will kill you for you
see lam stronger than you—l have a pistol
and a bowie-knife—you have neither.” the
right of the stionger nation to possess it
self of the property of the weaker, is just
as good—no better than that of ihe highway
man and both may be summed up in the four
words—no right at all—but a robbery. .the
history of rhe world proves that war never
satisfactorily and finally adjusts international
differences, but serves to awaken m the vic
torious further schemes of unprincipled ambi
tion; in the conquered, feelings of hostility
and vindictiveness for many generat.ons de
praving the moral character of communities,
making man the enemy of his fellow-man, and
arresting the progress of moral and intellect
ual growth. war, beanies, u the fruitful
parent of taxation, laying upon the shoulders
of the nations fearful loads of debt, making
commerce and industry stagger beneath its
weight. of this, great britain is a notorious
illustration. eight hundred millions ot pounds
sterling is the present uncountable debt of that
country, nearly, if not all of which is the
product of war. to pay the interest of thia
enormous debt, the immense sum of thirty
two millions of pn«n<li has to be raised by
taxation every year.
although mr. cobden’s motion was reject
ed, yet the tone of the speeches in opposition,
the unwillingness of the government to meet
the motion by a direct negative, and the fact
that the mover was bached by the voieea of
400,000 petitioner*, are indications of the
mate of feeling to tin tain, not to be mistaken.
may we not indulge the hope that every rivil
»ed people on the globe will respond in
aa loud, if not louder tones, to this voice of
england* republican america will surely
not be far behind aristocratic england, in her
expression of opinion in favor of a mode of
settling disputes, ao well calculated to prevent
misery and buxidshed, and to, promote ihei
brotherhood of man —j. d.
sen. waleer. the wisconsin dough
face, disposed or.—the sou ill port (wis.)
telegraph, thus introduces senator walker’s
lart letter to its readers. walker got himsrll
foisted into the senate on free soil profes
sions; and when there, either from the
corrupting influence of the surrounding atmos-
ipheie, or from hi* innate hunkeriwn, proved
himselt a cringing miserable tool of the
slave-powpr. i*t him be marked.
mr. walker has at length revealed him
self to the public in a letter, addressed to
e editor of the waukesha democrat. the
editor of that paper has been a fast friend of
mr. walker from the first, and we cannot,
therefore convey a betier idea of this letter
than to quote the opinion with regard to a of
this friend. he says it is “insulting to the
people, and beneath the dignity of a man of
honor. we were among the first to pro
pose his name for the office he now holds,
and have avoided as far as possible taking any
•tttd against him m his late deielictions of
duty, io tfr< hape that he would again right
hinfeelf: nut we can stand by him no longer.
he has in this letter cut himself loose from
the party, and bid defiance to the people.
we regret to see a man make such a wreck
of himself, but it is the work of his nature
impetuous, thoughtless, and ungoverned bv
honesty.” so says his friend.
cholera in cincinnati. —a correspond
ent of the rochester democrat, in a letter
dated july 4, says, that the reports of inter- i
ments this week, thus tar, will fully average
130 per day. last week’s interments showed
g 25 from cholera, and $oo in all. it is said
by many who were in cincinnati in ’32, that
the epidemic is as prevalent as it was then.—
the principal sufferers are the german and
irish emigrants, who reside mostly in lanes
and back streets, which are not properly cared
for by the authorities. the writer of the
letter in the democrat considers the officers of
the city grossly and culpably negligent.— j.d.
the spirit of the age. —the first num
ber of this new weekly has come to hand. it
is beautifully printed, and is under the able
editorial management of wm. henry chan
nino, who, the prospectus says, will be aided
by a large number of contributors. this is
an association paper, and seeks as its end
the peaceful transformation of human socie
ties fiom isolated to associated interests—
from competitive to co-operative industry—
from disunity to unity. it will doubtless be
an able exponent of associations views and
ptinciples. it is probably intended to take tht
place of the harbinger, which we have been
sorry to miss from our exchange list for a
number of weeks past. we shall consider
an exchange a favor.— j. d.
the message biro. —this is the title of
a new semi-monthly, devoted to music,
literature, and art. we have been favored
with the first number. it looks well, and
promises well. #ne unusual feature of this
periodical, is that each number will contain
two pages of music. the editors, if we
surmise correctly respecting them, are well
known men of literary reputation and ability, j
it cannot fail to be interesting. dewey has
it for sale in this city.—j. n.
philadelphia subscribers who have any
difficulty about getting their papers, will
please mention the fact to our agent in that
city, geo. w. goines, no. 8, exchange
place, lombard street, who will see that the
mistake is rectified. josephus brown, of
no. 8, south twelfth street, complains that
he does not get his paper. will mr. goines
see that it is sent. j. d.
a column of atrocities.
i
our readers may perhaps be interested to
know, what, if any, beyond their subjection
to slavery and all its attendant wickednesses,
are the peculiar cruelties and insults to which
the negro race are liable in this land of boast
ed human equality, and appreciation of human
rights. every day brings some new instance
of insult, or cruelty—insult or cruelty, more
over, for which, so long as they are practised
under the permission of this slaveholding
government, (and permitted—nay sanctioned
they must be so long as slavery is permitted)
elected by the suffrages of the american
people, every one who puts his hand to the
ballot-box is individually responsible. here
are a few,gleaned from our exchanges in one
week. when shall the end be j
inhumanity.—two negro men were ar
raigned before the county court of fauquier
county on friday last, charged with breaking
open the meat house of lloyd nolan, esq.,
and stealing a quantity of bacon. oue of
them having been induced to confess under
promises and inducements held out to him,
his conlessions thus obtained were not re
ceived as evidence, and there being insuffi
cient other evidence, fee w a* acquitted, aud
was used a witness against his accomplice,
who was convicted by the court, and sen
tenced to be hung ou the 10th august next.
the negro condemned is named w ilham, aud
is the pioperty of the heirs of hutchison
alexander, deceased.— altiandruz gazette.
tne philadelphia north american, com
menting upon this case says—" the facts
•laied in the foregoing paragraph are calcu
lated to excite the astonishment and arouse
the indignation of every christian community.
the statute-book which tolerates such a
law, as consigns life to the scaffold for larce
ny, ia a disgrace to the name of humanity, tod
unworthy ul a place among the records of van
dalism. we turn from this saddening picture
with horror and disgust; horror at the infamy oi
such criminality, and disgust at the profes
sions of ‘equality’ and ‘freedom’ that are
daily mouthed by the majority of a state,
which legalizes murder for an offence which,
according to all enlightened and humane
institutions, is not visaed with more than
temporary imprisonment.
tne bloody codc.—we observe that a
•lave is sentenced to be hung at piedmont,
vs i on the 10th of august, lor breaking in
to a smoke bouse and stealing a piece of
meat there are seventy offences in vtrgt
nts for which a slave is condemned to death,
at>d the awful crime of taking something to
appease his hunger is one of them. what a
beautiful illustration we have here of the
•lave system, which is so tenderly treated by
the encfaieisastieal organisations ol the coun
ty it gives to the master ihe right to ap
propnaie to feimeelf the time, labor, and
everything sloe of the sieve, and to render to
h*m in **turn whit is harrilv sufficient to ke*p
•out sod h>dv together while if the latter,
bv the gnawing* of hunger, it may
d*res to appropriate any portion of the
<,r bis to himself, he ta deemed
buoi u? th mtk
nf t 4t *y ,wol,w «*e g*ve an account
a foul hum, er growing out of an interference
n< r hw ,noth »om.n
sentenced bv a c otm in this repobhr tr>
h*»e her ears nailed to a poet for one hour
the boston republ can g*., the fjm rg
the pensacola gszetre
ac lh. uuicrrnot .he c «m 10,
p»n»rnl, lh, w*r<. s r« m-
c.p b*k«. lu
file her master s bonne she was
o hare her ears nailed to a post for o ne tj 0
and to receive thirty-nine lashes, which
tence has been carried into effect.
and yet we are charged with fanaticism
because wo have a woid to utiter agamat tho
auppoit and extension of a svstem which 1(
in the hands of men brutal enough to enrci
such a tragedy, and one which must resort i„
such diabolical meant to make its victim*
safe in the power of their destroyers p r 3
trans.
brltsl business—ln marion fountyj
fa., a plantcrnamed burceson ami his over
seer meadows, have been indited for cruelu
to their slaves. the brutes had ac tuu>
caused a woman to he torn in peices bv iheit
dogs. a mr. madison who sis ins tu mental
in having them indicted, was lately wat laid b>
burleson and meadows, knocked dow n with
club, stabbed in a numlier ol places and left
for dead. he has revived sufficiently to make
a deposition before a magistrate, but will
probably die. his skull was fiaetuied in
three places, and the biain protruded from one
of them. burleson was at liberty, couceale,!
in the woods, which were surrounded hv hi*
pursuers. —jacksonville (fa.) jv-irs.
putative free negroes found to a*
slaves.—a day or two since a free colored
man, named francois tomassin, appeared
before recorder seuxenacu, to enter a charge
of assault and battery against another negro
named alexander priere, who has passed 14
free, and has l»een universally considered a,
free born by those who knew hirn. the
complainant, in revenge lor the violence or
his person, has revealed,however, some facts
which entirely changed the social position <*i
the accused, and reduced his whole fatw
iy, who, like him, have lieen reported free
slavery. the story runs thus;
several years since,george heno, a hutchei
who had acquired a fortune in this city, leu
for france, where he resided until death
when leaving here he disposed of all his slaves
but one. a blind girl, who, in consequence of
being blind, he was unable to sell, af) d
withont manumitting her, told her to go and
take care of herself. in the lapse of years
the blind girl became the mother ot two chil
dren, son and daughter. the son, now a full
grown man, is the party accused in the above
mentioned case; and the daughter is herself
the mother of several children the family
of mr. heno have always resided in tins city,
hut have never seen the blind girl since be
dismissed her, she had passed from their
memory his son, heno, icing informed 0
the statement of tomassin, now appears and!
claims the whole priere family—mother, son,
daughter, and grand-children—as his prop
erty; and has instituted proceedings to place
them in his posession.—.yew orleans delta
attempted escape of a slae.—mary
ann dickinson, a tree colored woman, was
arraigned before the mayor on saturday mor
ning, charged with aiding and abetting
martha ann, the property of john endtn,
jr., to escape from the state of virgin's!
from the examination before the mayor we
gather the following facts abby dickinson
lives in rockett-*, and enjoys an extensive
acquaintance with 1 lie sea faring or coasting
gentry. during the early pan. of last week
she made application to cap t. barker, of the
schooner william .maury, to take a passenger
on board his vessel, hound for philadelphia.
capt. b. having signified lus willingness
to comply with the request, he was at once
taken into the confidence of the negress, w ho
stated to him the passenger she wished him
to convey to philadelphia was a colored girl,
(a slave) who was extrernelv anxious 10
effect her escape to a free state—that 3he
belonged to mr. enders, and was at that time
concealed in the city, making preparations for
her contemplated elopement—that all propet
arrangements would bo made to avoid detec
tion, and with that view capt. barker was
required to meet her (abby dickinson) on
the ensuing friday evening at a point agreed
upon, when they both would repair to the
neighborhood in which the girl|(martha ann)
was concealed—that the girl would appeal
dressed in boy's clothes, and that she would
then follow capt. b. to his vessel, the free
negress, in the meanwhile, reiurnmg to her
own home in rocketts
the arrangements being completed between
ibe parties, i apt. barker at once acquainted
mr. p. ford, a citizen of this city,
with the circumstances, and hu deternnna
lion to carry the plan into effect only fax
enough to fasten guilt on ihe parties and
secure an arrest. to accomplish this, ibr
aid of mr. poitiaux robinson was solicited
as one of the parties mainly interested in se
curing the arrest of the girl. capt. 1j with
a view to render the arrest certain, and the
criminality of the girl and her adviser in
dubitable, determined to proceed to his ves
sel over mayo’s bridge with his anxious
passenger, it having been pre-arranged ihat
messrs. robinson and ford should station
themselves on the bridge, and arrest the
girl, f nday night, the plan previously ar
ranged, was carried into effect, and the girl
arrested on the bridge and lodged in jaij. she
is about 18 years of age, intelligent and come
ly, and has always received good treatment
from the family lu w hich she had been reared
abby a. dickinson was committed to jail to
await an examination before the dusting
court, on the ilth june, and the witnesses
recognized to appear at that time.— ruhmona
ttmu.
of this abominably treacherous and dis
graceful proceeding of captain barker an
exchange (i have forgotten which) says
“it is a deep disgrace to his profession, to
the age, and to humarf nature. he is ap
pealed 10 ot take'a young woman from a land ol
ilavery to a land of freedom. it was an
tppeal that would grieve an honest and
generous heart to deny. if he ceuld not
have felt it his duty to have complied with
the tequest, he would and should have res
pectfully declined it. he assented to the
irrangements only to deceive, and plunge the
girl sod her friend into misery. h e is an in
famous, cold-blooded scoundrel—a fit to.l for
ih««e who make merchandise of women and
thildren.”
r cacoht.—three runaway slaves
>f mr. gidding* and miss jhi llaery, resid.ng
»e*r petersville, frdenck go sid. hs»#
!>een arrested and secured. one wts found
it chambersburg, pa—
awrvl.—the body of a small negro child
was found in a motaaees hogshead in this
place, a few days since, after the molasses
was all drawn off, no marks of violence were
found upon him. we can vouch tor the truth
tl thta —cohoes cataract.
stakvino a man bxca tsf or mi* cotos
—"e have intimated m another article that
we,a*a people, have not reached the true re
publican standard, and that there yet linger in
w midst many tyrannical prejudice. i we did
dot expect so soon to be obliged to record so
tllustiatioo of the practical working* of one ot
the worst sod most senseless of these preju
dices—the prejudice sgsmst color and vet
the painful facts are as follow*
as we announced last weeh,|mr. w. w
brown, ooce a slave, now s, tree man in fact,
tad a fins specimen of s man lectured u» this
city on friday evening last, on which occa
*ion he ated the following circumstance
having occasion to go eastward from this
cut?, he took passage on board the steamer
huntress. on the arrival of the dinner hour,
he proceeded with others to the clerk’s office
to purchase a ticket fur hit meal. the clerk
it first passed out the ticket, but glancing
upward to the face of mr brown, he
snatched it hack as though he had committed
to ne deadly error, and roughly mfoitned ti e
purchaser that he could hate no dinner at
present' mr. brown said nothing, but abided
his nme. k\ last, when it became evident
;hat the othei passengers had satisfied their
wants, he again applied to the clerk, and
was again refused 1 aiting again, until he
-aw the table was tbout to be cleared, and
being, like white rnen, troubled with a atom
aea, the wants of which by this time were
father pressing, he for the tbird time ap
proached to the clerk, when that worthy
slammm dow n his window at the same time
exclatming that “dinner was all through with’ i
these facts, ore would imagine, needed
no comment. and yet we cannot restrain
ourselves from pronouncing the occurrence an 1
unmitigated outrage upon the rights of rnan,j
and an evidence of harbanssn of which twenty j
tears hence ever) new englander will blush 1
it the remembrance. for what was the
dferiee of mr brown* he is a gentleman in!
tas manners, appearance and attainments, sod
—which however entities him to no more con
sideration than if he were—by no means a
vick man there were probably few, if any,, 1
white men *>n hoard that boat who possessed
ulents equal to his.
we s uppose the officers of the lwi.it pistiiy
the outrage on the ground that public opin
ion demanded it of them. but, thank god,
public opinion fast changing on this sub
ject and it behoves them to take heed of the
tact port land'transcript.
rhis must suffice for the present though
many similar cases might be given, if out
units permitted. it is u disgraceful cata
logue. on the perusal of which every ame-*
rican, who has a spark of humanity in las!
bosom, will feel the blush of indignant shame i
overspreading his countenance. talk of!
sympathising with the oppressed in other!
lands' let us purge out this system of
unpaielledpd wickedness at home, and then
mtv we, with clean hands, and a clear con
science, and with omnipotent effect raise our
voices against the atrocities of european dis-i
[h)lism and kingcraft.—j. n.
the colonization cause over forty i,
churches in this vicinity have pledged them
selves to take up collections for the coloniza
tion society. several sermons were preach
ed on sunday, in its behalf—one in brooklyn
and two m this eitv—on all of which occa-j
nions liberal collections were taken up in sup
port of the cause.—.v. v. express.
douginas heeling,
june 25m.1849.
according to previous notice, a large mee
ting of the people of color met in the bap
tist church. the meeting was called to or
der bv appointing l. 1). taylor chairman and
i). jenkins secretary.
the object of the meeiuig being stated,mr.
d. jenkins offered for adoption the following
resolutions, which, alter remarks from sev
eral gentlemen, were passed;
rcsolcsd, that we hail with joy the con
templated visit of frederick douglass to the
state of ohio, and especially to columbus
resolved, that we welcome him to this
place by a procession through two or more
t>f tfie principal streets of our city
resolved. that a committee of three be ap
pointed to meet him with a private convey
ance at such point as may be designated by
turn for th purpose of bringing him into the
city.
resolved, that a committee of five on the
part of the females and three on the part of
the males be appointed to solicit funds to de
frav the above expences.
the following are the committee on con
veyance messrs. 1). jenkins, l. d.
and 1 11. johnson.
the committee on collecting funds are: fe
males, miss e. spencer, miss m. robertson,
miss s. p. higginbotham, miss ann goode
and mrs. m. buckner; on the part of the j
males, messrs. j. poindexter, s. washing
ton and r. butcher.
moved, that the proceedings he signed
by the chairman and secretary and published
in the new concord free press, north star,
christian herald, columbus tribune, and
other city papers.
on motion, the meeting adjourned, without i
date e. 1) taylor. ch’n.
i). jenkins sec’y.
reception ok father maihew'.—father
mathew was brought up lo the cin of new
york from siaien island on monday after-!
noon he was landed ai castle garden, and
introduced to mayo: woodhull, who in the
name of the city council, and in behalf of;
the citizens of new-yolk, welcomed him, and
ivited him'to become the city’s guest. a'
great procession was formed at the battery
which ptocetdid up broadway to the city
hall wheie father mathew was again intro
duced u» ihe people from the city hall,!
he was conducted to the irving house,;
where, with many distinguished oitiiwns, he
took *upper. \ve make the follow n.g exiracts
from father mathew’s reply m \!.\..r
woodhull's speech of welcome
1 feel prouder this day than 1 can g.vc ut
uterance to gratitude is too swelling to hind
words sf sufficient expance to convey mv
•arise of it. ail 1 can say is 1 thank you j
—from my heart i thank von. you have
received ina as you receive your gieatest citi
zens; you have received me as your most re-;
downed generals and must envied friends of
your happiness and your race. 1 deeply feel
tire honor; but, my friends, 1 am undeserving
of it. if i deserve any thing for iny persever
ance in the cause which 1 have followed,the)
reception you have given this day repays me
lor all. 1 have been witnessing the beauti
ful scenfcrv winch surrounds your city, and
have been lost in astonishment in looking at
the vast commercial fleets which flow in here
irorn all parts of the globe. it is too great to
be comprehended at one sight. 1 am only sorry
ihat ill health prevents my adddessing you
as 1 ought the intensity of mv feelings pre
eludes the possibility ‘of giving utterance to
them; but again receive my sincere thanks
tor the greatest houui 1 have ever received, j
yesterday the apostle of temperance re
ceived the calls of the citizens at the govern
or’s rooms, city hall. his reception by the!
people is described by the new ork papers j
as inoa enthus a>tic. bust. (out.
the peake movement. —the secretaries
of the peace congress l ommitiee, the rev.
henry richard arid mr eiilm burritt, have!
cl returned from paris, w here they have.
ii making preliminary arrangements for the
great peace congress which is to b« held in j
that city in the month of august. their re-
ceprn m ha. been cord.sl and encouraging, i
lhev have had tiite'vn-wfc with some of the
m«*»t mtfoenuai men m france, who hav<
entered with lively interest into the objects id
the proposed congress, and who have leadih
offered to take a psrt in .ts proceedings k
committee of organization ta now forming in
f*n», and will comprise members of the
national assembly, the editors of some of the
leading french journals, and several of the
moat distinguished philanthropists and luerarv 1
men in that country this committee will
*<•l in concert with the other national corn-!
imltees which have been formed respectively
in london, brussels, and boston.—.yomon
formnf
.‘■m.avkitv i.v c*u»ok.m*. —t. dwight
11 nit writes from han francisco, that a negro
woman ami child were trotighl in that place,
not long since, lor $1,900. the buyer was
ougmally fnxii rhode island and the seller
trwdj oregon.
communications.
colored citiicu of pllukvrv-
kcosd a.iticli.
sorry arc »e that doty enjoin* end justice
compel* u* to iccord the faet, however much
we m*y regiet the necessity of *o doing,
that the more aspect of oociety among our
people is at a very low estimate at preeent
m the city of pittsburg and vicinity—indeed,
the place does not appear like the same.
while we must as a matter of course ad
mit once for all that there are those individuals
and families, whose standing and reputation
are such, that they may well defy the "ravag
es of time and test of ages" to defile or sully
them—yet, barring these excellent excep
tions, lamentable indeed to the reformer and
anxious observer and enquirer after a peo
ple's destiny—lamentable indeed, we repeal
with a heart of sorrow, is the moral aspect ol
society among our people in the confine* ol
the city of pittsburg. we assert without
the fear of successful contradiction ihat the
morals of the youth here are fifty per ceni.
worse than ten years ago, and one thousand
per cent, worse than three years previous
this is true— ten times worse than three years
ago*
a high moral standard and delicate sensi
bility have yielded to vile influences and
braving and daring every sense of propriety
extant in society, the base standard of im
morality and depravity has been hoisted with
impunity, around which the thoughtless and
deluded votaries readily rally. during the
last winter, we have been informed, that low
dances, a custom unknown to pittsburg foi
the last fourteen years, were common, at
which many of the young people classed
among the most favorable portion of society
were the constant patrons, hailing as fellow
guests the refuse of the community ming
ling in their social circle the libertine and
concubine. trie strumpet and scoundrel
stalk abroad with almost unrestricted sway.
the youth now coming up, especially those
just emerging into manhood, are fearfully
delinquent in that which constitutes decency, l
civility, politeness, and even good manners—
in all of those traits the prerequisites of a
good and wholesome state of society.
moral and literary societies arc totally
neglected by the young people—there not be
ing such a tiling in existence as a moral or
literary society among the young men and
young women of either of the two cities and
environs. cadding and gossiping, bending and
gainsaying, occupying doubtless a much
higher estimate in their consideration than!
improvement of the mind and morals. whatj
a fearful state of society is this, and yet there
appear to be no influences at work, either!
temporal, moral, nor religious—either m the
church or out of the church brought particu-!
larly to bear upon it to remedy the evil. that 1
there is a fault lies some where there is no
doubt. that parents and leaders in society
have greatly neglected their duty in many
particulars we have not a doubt; and call.
upon them in the name of virtue and rnorali-i
ty, to look well to the character of the young j
people. hut the church stands pre-eminent
in influence as a body corpoiate among our
people, and we affirm it to be as much her
duty to look after the moral as the spiritual
salvation of a community and we shall here j
do the present excellent pastors of two of the
churches the credit—rev. m. m. clark, of
the a. m. e. church in pittsburg, and rev.'
d. stevens of wes. church alleghany, to
say, that we believe they are willing to and
would do their duty in this respect, but they
meet the continual opposition of the profes
sing leading christian members of those;
churches, w ho charge them with “concerning
themselves too much with the things of the
world,'' for the very reason that these things
cannot be reached by preaching, but must be
done by lecturing —hence, they are told that
they are out of their sphere, and should they
persist, run the risk of losing their useful
ness as ministers of the gospel.
the church herald under the management
of rec. a. r. green as editor, should em
brace a larger field of usefulness. we hold
that it is as much the duty of that paper and
the calling of iis editor to attend to the
temporal as to the eternal welfare of our peo
ple—especially here in pittsburg—right un
der the eye of the editor and folio of its own
pages—in the free city of pittsburg, upon
subjects and matteis as these most certainly
are, disconnected with slavery—upon our
moral elevation and temporal reformation—
upon the education, morals, manners and
progress of our people—the colored people
here in thejcities of piitsburg and alleghany,
the colored people of alleghany county;
we say, fora neglect and indifference so pal
pable as this, the rev. augustus r. green,
editor of the organ at least of one religious
sect among the colored people of alleghany
county, has not, in our opinion, the shadow
of a reasonable excuse. man must become
moral before he can become religious, and
genuine christianity comes by reflection and
we venture the opinion, that there never was
a professing chiistian whose "religion
stood.” w ho was converted without conviction;
w inch conviction can only come by reflection
—indeed it is reflection itself. bring the
mind to iniar upon particular wrongs and you
thus far prepare it for the reception of other
truths. man must first be made sensible of
wrong before he can have a proper conception
of right every step to morality and im
provement is a step gained towards chris
tianity, and there is no work more rightfully
and legitimately that of the minister of the
gospel than the elevation of man and woman
temporally, as well as spiritually when the
time comes that the ministers of the gospel
generally take a proper interest in the tem
poral welfare of mankind—then and not tilt
then, will ihe kingdom ol chriat which they
desire to establish, be made fully and effectu
ally mautfeat among men. m. r. d
education ia ohio.
it is uuly gratifying to observe the awaken
ing interest everywhere manifested in ihe
great subject of education among the colored
people. true, none of those organizations,
such as the ohio slat* school fund and it*
auxiliary branches now exist, that were in
operstton a few years ago. that system—
good in its anticipated results—laudable in its
purposes, was suffered to fail from tbe want
of a ptoper spirit to keep it up. the de
grading influence of the black laws” upon
colored society m this stale, seemed to hate
destroyed, in a great degree, e*i»n t^u ve
ambition to become elevated. thus, after
abort flickering existence, did almost ere
ennobling enterprise find au untimely grav
but
time iu change* bria^*.”
the last general assembly, m repeahr
these lava, greatly removed tbia vile mcubi
that has borne with such crushing weight upr
all their efforts to attain an elevated oociai p<
aition. a pew spirit is now infusing use
into their every undettaking. education fir
presents itself to their immediate consider
tion. an illustration of this is furnished
the town of hamilton. a few years agf
what was more discouraging then even a
attempt to sustain a colored school in thi
community 7 now, there is a good one 1
successful operation, with a tolerable chanc
of iis permanent continuance. on ihe 19t
inst. i had the satisfaction of being present a
a sabbath and afterwards the common schot
exhibition, the performances of which, b
unanimous consent, reflect the highest honor
upon their teacher, mr. john a. warren.
philadelphia, to whose untiring drvotednes
this community owes so much.
the sabbath school exhibition, which cam
off first, was a brilliant affair. the littl
chapel bloomed with becoming decorations
mostly the work of several married ladies
i "ho disinterestedly lent their services on ihi
occasion, and indeed seemed to have out
stripped the young unmarried ones in th<
manifestation of deep devotion to the cause
and their display of a neat delicate taste ii
fixing up the house. the exercises of tin
evening lasted until a late hour, and did grea
j credit to the town, ihe teachers and tin
scholars.
ihe next day, according to previous an
nouncement, mr. warren, with the sabbatl
school and his own school children, repairei
to a thick shady wood, where they lor
while were left to the enjoyment of thei
favorite juvenile sports. i almost wished
wer e a boy again, provided l cr.uld be sur
j rounded with the same flattering prospects o
the future. many children, varying in ag<
from fifteen to fifty, were also in attendance
children j say, for all seemed to have aban
doned their sedate and sober habits for the
j and joyous pleasures oi the day. groups
scattered here and there over the deep greer
grass, made the leafy arches ting with thcii
innocent songs and merry peals of laughter
some, with indian-like devotedness, would
exercise their skill with bows and arrows,
others, together with the smallci ones, would
skip the tope the more settled would wjth
j draw to sonic deep shade lor the purpose of
enjoying the more intellectual refreshments tn
be found in conversation. recitations, dia
logues, and a concluding address, brought the
day’s performances to a close. the whole is
j deserving of the highest commendation, espe
cially when the obstacles w hich this gentle
man has had to encounter arc taken into con
i "iteration. nothing like an exhibition was
ever attempted among the coloted people of
this place before, and i feel quite assured that
the whole proceedings resulted to the entire
satisfaction ot all. that such tilings are de
cidedly beneficial to school children, is quite
obvious. they are encouraged hy knowing
that their labors, if diligent, will be appre
ciated and iewarded with praises, consequent
ly they devote themselves more arduously and
make greater advancement in their studies.—
there is a great demand for teachers in this
state, at the present time. it is quite evident
i that the colored people of ohio are fast com
1° a knowledge of the fact, that they are
responsible, by example and co-operation, for
*he success o[ all future undertakings affect
iijg their general welfare.
j. anderson.
hamilton, ohio.
buried alive.—the cincinnati commer
cial gives the following from a reliable source:
the body ol a victim of the cholera was
placed in the vault of one of our graveyards,
where it remained about 34 houis, when, in
the presence of friends and relatives it was
taken for burial.—some of the relatives de
siring to look once more upon the deceased,
the«exton unscrew ed the coffin, and awful to
behold, the features of the corpse were found
to be hideously distorted, his shroud torn,
and his fingers, which were between his teeth,
bitten and gnawed to the very bone.
a miss taylor was taken sick with chol
era at st louis on sunday. it was supposed
that she had died. her brother insistdfi that
she should not be buried until the next day.
on monday while tbeluneral preparations
were in progress, she suddenly revived and
now bids fair to recover.
premature burial.—a learned belgian,
m. mainple, has recently discovered a very
simple means of distinguishing between real
and apparent death. it consists in creating a
small burn if there is life, a blister is always
formed even in the absence of apparent sen
sibility.—lt death has alreadv intervened,
nothing of the kind occurs.
lollin'g eor nit deaa.—lii consequence
of the a'arming number of deaths from chol
era. in st. louis, the church bells of that city
have been kept in motion from morning till
night, fir the past few weeks. this inces
sant mourning for the dead has been silenced
by the authorities the people’s organ
says “the church and fire bells will not
ring out tbeit mourntul tell-tale notes in fu
ture, for deaths, during the present mate of
things

writing on newspapers.—a newspaper,
bearing the initials .of a incnd. was received
at the post office, syracuse, directed to a
young lady residing in the family of charles
f. hicks. the postmaster. mr teal], de
manded letter [>ostage on it, which mr.
hicks refused to pay, but tendered that of
one ant the ordinary neewpapei postage,
which was refused and the paper reiained a
suit was instituted against the postmaster for
detaining the pajier, and ha? been carried
through all the courts to the supreme court
of the l nited states. the star (of syracuse)
says that the attorney general of the united
states, after examining the case, decided that
the state courts had no jurisdiction m tne
case and that teall acted legally m charg
ing letter postage on the paper, and fully
sustaining the ground taken hv teali’s coun
sel in the different courts. the cost :n this
suit will probably amount to at least $4oo
the amount involved in the original dispute
between the postmaster and mr h «l- wu
runt ants.—evening post
new yota. june 9,—3 p m —the
board of health reported yesterday 43 cases
of cholera, and *27 deaths, as having occurred
within the past 24 hours. to-day they report
120 cases and 46 death#. this is the heavi
est o! the season.
the cholera, it is reported, bad broken out
among the caroaebe indians, and they were
flying in every direction.
new orleans is very healthy. the deaths
last from cholera were *2§— other dis
eases s4.—total 113
aa appeal la bekelf of ike western hew
york aatmlarery fait.
earnestly desiring the abolition of slaveii
in this land, and being deeply convinced thai
this result can ooly be accomplished by re
newed efforts to change our present corrupi
mural sentiment, the underaigned members
and friends ot ihe western new york anti-
slavery s*meiv. again, make their appeal to
the frienda of the slave in behalf u ihe:r
annual bazaar, which will be he'd in roches
ter in december neat.
while »e have been cheered and gladden
ed by the progress already made, and ihe
good already done, and while we rejoice to
observe that fnends have been raised up to
plead the cause of the bondman among per
sons, and in quarters where we had least ex
pected them, we still see “the harvest to be
great and thejia&orers to be few,” and instead of
relaxing our effort we are impressed with a
sense of the duty of doubling our diligence,
ami applying more closely our eneigies to
the means of advancing this holy cause.—
we appeal the more boldly to oar fnends
because thuoe tor whom we plead caneot plead
for themselves. while we are surrounded
by our domestic circle, with none to xuiesi or
make us affraid, there are three w::iions of
men and women m our own land, doomed to
abject slavery and chains, robbed of every
right—civil—social—personal —and political.
remembering those in bonds as itound w ith
them, we desire to plead their cause as though
the galling chain were on our own limbs and
the knotted lash were applied to our own
backs.
while to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our annual fair, it is not the only one a
gteat amount of good may lie traced directly
to such occasions. many who are now active
workers in behalf of this holy movement be
came first interested in it through the instru
mentality of those annual exhibitions, of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
the present object of the rochester anti
slavery bazaar is for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind on the subject ot
slavery. recognizing the north siat, (pub
lished in this city) as an efficient anti-slave
ry instrumentality, we propose that the funds
raised bv ihe sale of articles at the bazaar
(on behalf of which we here appeal) shall
be mainly appropriated to the support of that
important p-ipei.
we gratefully acknowledge ihe prompt
assistance rendered to our last fair by our
friends and coadjutors in various pans of our
own state, wisconsin, and michigan and we
earnestly solicit tlnr continued co-operation
with us in the good work. that no time
may lie lost, we especially recommend to
them the immediate formation of sewing cir
cles in heir various towns with u view to
making articles for the rochester bazaar.
we would also in this connection render our
heartfelt thanks to our british friends for the
valuable aid extended by them to our last
year’s fair and we would again warmly so
licit their generous assistance. it is due our
trails-atlantic friends to say tliap, for much of
the interest felt m our last bazaar we were
indebted to them, and we arc pursuaded that
their continued co-operatiori will essentially
promote the success of our approaching de
cember bazaar, and the advancement of the
cause of the slave in our land.
we hope that the foregoing appeal will
commend itself to our philanthropic friends
on both sides the atlantic, and that thev will
cordially unite with us in the effort here pro
posed
k»ri not —luglmious reel
unnerves the man,
struggle—’tis gods behest!
t ill up life’s little span
h ith god-likc deeds—it is the test
test of the high-born soul.
and lofty aim;
the test in history’s scroll
of every honoured name—
none t«n ihe brave shall w in the goal!
signed on behalf of the fair comm i tee,
amy post.
appeal of the philadelphia association
the women’s association of philadel
phia,” appeal to a benevolent public, and to
ihe friends of the slave everywhere, to aid
them in their approaching fair, the object cl
which is to sustain the north star.’ to
those who are familiar w ith the pages of this
paper it is unnecessary to speak of its merit,
lo those who have not seen it we may say,
that we regard it as one of the very best anti
slavery instrumentalities now in the field.
we are the more interested in it, because
the editor is one of our own oppressed race,
md admirably qualified by ins talents and
moral worth to perforin w ith credit the ardu
ous task of editing a paper devoted to our ele
vation. we believe and trust that onr friends
will give us their liberal aid.
to our ow n people we look earnestly and
hopefully. sisters, brothers, shall we look
in vain? the iron has entered into your souls.
\e go heavily, bowed down to the very dust,
dispirited, crushed by the weight of oppres
sion. ye hear the taunts ol the enemy, “they
are so ignorant and unrefined' they are
jealous one of another' yes, they unite but
it is only to put down one who is more intel
lectual than the mass prove by ihe uner
ring language of conduct that these assertions
so often thrown in our faces are malicious
slanders. sustain f. douglass, because hit
talents and correct principles demand your
respect and confidence. sustain him because
it is right to do so. and because of the sweet
peace the performance of $o worthy an action
will assuredly bring into your own bosom.
the fair will be held on christmas week.
donations for it may be sent to
harriet smith, 310 lombard-street,
rachel lloyd, 303 pine-street,
amy m. cassey, 113 lombard-street,
or to any member of the association.
elizabeth appo. lydia ann bistill,
mary barrott. hetty birr,
louisa bristol. helen johnson.
hester bvstill, eliza jones.
charlotte mills.
sarah m douglass, cor sec y.
no. >4 mulberry-street.
philadelphia, fith mo., 25, 1840.
arnicas slave trade in texan.— ihe
following statement, which will surprise
many readeis. is made by tlie caddo (louis
iana) gazette of the bth ult
"we have been credibly inioruieu, that
there is a constant trade in the kidnapping of
negroes, going on between africa and texas.
year before last, (here were several vessels,
well loaded with negroes, brought from
africa, and landed near the mouth of the san
bernard, and the negroes there sold. tbu
black scheme should be looked into by the
government, and those engaged in h punished
according to law.
the deaf
it was the *2uth of march ifr*?. in
the poorly-furnished apartment of a
small house in baden, in austria, an old
man was making preparations for a
journey. he hastily folded within a
knapsack a tew changes of linen. the
weather was cold, the windows were
covered with hoarfrost, and yet only a
tew dying embers burned upon the
hearth. luther the old man's mind
was too deeply engrossed to think of
feeding the tlarne, or perhaps his scanty
resources needed careful husbanding to
meet the expenses of his approaching
■journey.
in truth, the aspect of the room be
spoke a state of want rather than of af
fluence. a bed w ith curtains of laded
green serge, a few antique arm-chairs
ot varnished wood, covered with well
worn tapestry, a walnut table, and a
harpsichord, composed its entire furni
ture. the harpsichord was strewed
with music, partly in manuscript; and
a dying sheet covered with nearly
illegible notes, and disfigured by nuine
rows erasures, showed what had been
the old man’s recent employment. the
occupier of this desolate abode was be
tween fifty and silty years of age. his
lofty forehead, encircled by locks of sil
ver gray, beamed with intelligence, al
though he appeared bowed down be
neath, the weight of some great afflic
tion. a dark fire kindled in his hazel
eyes, and his cheeks, glow ing with one
bright feverish spot ofhectic color, con
trasted strangely with the deadly pale
ness which overspread the rest of his
1 countenance. y\ hen the knapsack was
made up, the old man approached the
table, on which lay an open letter,
stamped with the vienna postmark. he
took it up, and stood awhile with his
eyes fixed on its contents, though it
only contained these few' words:—
‘my dear uncle —pardon me the
grief w hich i am occasioning you; but
implicated in an unhappy transaction,
t 1 have just received an order to quit
vienna, whence 1 am commanded for
the future to absent myself. 1 beseech
you to come to my aid: you alone can
save me. adieu. john.’
this letter came from a nephew
i whom he hud brought up, and whose
i disorderly conduct had rendered
necessary the rigorous mandate which
now banished him from the capital.
when the old man had perused it
j once more, he appeared confirmed in
his resolution, and with his knapsack in
one hand, and his walking-stick ut the
other, he prepared to set out. but on
reaching the threshold, he turned buck,
and casting a look of deep regret on
this modest asylum, where he had long
and happily dwelt, he sighed; then, as
if attracted by a magic charm, he re
turned to his harpsichord, and quickly
laying down what he held in his hand,
he ran his lingers over the discolored
notes of the instrument. his gloomy
and dejected countenance was gradually
lighted up with an expression of intense
happiness, and a sublime strain ascen
ded towards heaven, a fitting hymn o!
praise to the almighty,
i as he plunged into these regions o
harmony, it seemed as if his spirit hat
bid adieu to earth, and soared to tin
j realms above in poarch of consolation
but soon all nt; the olt
man wept; he deep sigh, ant
exclaimed—‘and to think that i cai
i hear nothing!’ alas! he was deaf.
the poor pilgrim again took up hi:
staff, and set forth on his journey. a
j the turning of the street, he once mort
looked round on the humble dwelling
where he had passed the last ten years
of his life, shut out by his infirmity
from the sounds of the external world
music for him only existed within the
soul. he walked on into the country
j lor, by way of husbanding iiis smal
store, he was going on foot from badei
to vienna. the evening closed in: the
old man stopped before a peasant’s cot
tage. he had presumed too much oi
his strength, having expected, betori
.night closed in, to reach vienna, iron
which the village of baden is only tei
leagues distant. he had walked vigor
ously, but night approached, and ht
fell his strength lading nim. hi
i knocked at the door; a young gir
’opened it, asking him xvhat he wanted
the old man, who guessed her questioi
1 from the movement of her lips, replied
i‘hospitality, my good girl.’ ‘come ii
then, there is always a welcome at mj
father’s hearth for the benighted travel
jler.' thus cordially invited, he enter
|ed a large room, where the fruga
evening repast was smoking upon t
homely table. a cover was quickly
laid for him near the father ofthe family
unu he sat down to the table with tlit
i friendly household group. after sup
per, lie seated hiinselfin an old lenthen:
arm-chair by the chimney-corner. a
cheerful lire blazed upon the hearth
i'he mother and daughter cleared the
table, whilst the father opened an old
harpischord, and the three sons took
down their instruments which hung
against the wall. they consisted ofai
alto, a violincello, and a hautboy.
the performers attuned their instru
ments, the mother and daughter seated
themselves with their work near the
fire, wiiere a single lamp afforded the
needful light. the father gave the
signal, and the tour musicians began a
piece with that enseipble, with that
knowledge of measure, which the ger
mans possess beyond all other nations.
by degrees their eyes kindled, they
abandoned themselves to the ardor oi
the sentiment with which they were
transported.—the two women listened
whilst they almost held in their breath
their work fell from their hands. the
music ceased—they exchanged looks
ut delight—the young girl kissed het
lather’s gray hairs with emotion: they
forgot the presence of their guest. he
had followed all their movements with e
longing eye, for his deafness prevented
his hearing a single note of the
music which had so deeply affected
them.
‘oh how happy you are,' he said
with a faltering voice, ‘to be able tc
enjoy this delicious pleasure! alas’ it
is long since 1 have been able to hear
either the human voice, or music, which
is the voice of god. when igo out to
meditate in the forest, 1 feel indeed the
wind which blows around me, but i
hear not ite mighty voice, whilst it
shaken the trees, or murmurs among
the leaves, mingling with the general
harmony of nature when i return
from my walk at the close of a line
summer s day, i can indeed see the
young shepherdess as she leads her
hock to he watered at the fountain, but
1 cann >t hear either her joyous song or
the tingling sound of the* sheep-bells.
i can see* the lark fly swiftly to
the valley where her nest lies hidden,
hut 1 hear not her melodious voice
mingling with the whisper of the
breeze. oh, music' harmony! it is my
lift*; hut, alas! its vocal expression is
lost to me forever. let me, i pray
you. read the pages which have so
deeply stirred you he rose, took the
sheet in ins hand, a sudden paleness
overspread his features; he sunk upon
his seat overwhelmed with emotion.
he had just read upon the cover,
‘allegretto from the pastoral symphony
of beethoven.* all gathered around
him, and inquired the cause of his agi
tation. when he w as able at length to
command his voice, he arose from his
seat and said, am beethoven. at
ihe sound of his name, the father idled
his woolen cap from his head, and the
sons bowed w ith the deepest reverence.
beethoven pressed their hands in his,
and w ept for joy. the good peasants
kissed iliese venerated hands; for this
man they felt was the genius who had
lightened for them the daily burthen of
life—the genius so honored in vienna
that when he took his daily walk, the
passers-by exclaimed, ‘there is beeth
oven! 5 and silently made way for him,
lest they should interrupt his medita
tions. the peasants looked w r ith un
wearied delight on that noble brow
where grief had indeed stomped its fatal
marks, but which still was encircled
w ith the halo of genius.
beethoven then seated himself at the
harpischord, and desiring the young
people to take up their instruments, he
played lor them his own symphony.
it w as a moment of unspeakable happi
ness.
when they had finished, beethoven
improvised sublime melodies: his spirit,
breaking through the bonds which en
chained him fo earth, seemed to rise
triumphantly towards heaven.
the poor harpischord under his hand
gave forth unwonted sounds—some
times majestic as the voice of thunder,
sometimes mysterious as the sighs ol
the dying.
alas! it was the song of the swan! a
part of the night thus glided on. the
bed usually occupied by the father ol
the family, was prepared for beeth
oven, and he was constrained to accepl
it.
during the night he became feverish
and to cool his burning brow*, he arose
and went out into the open air, toe
slightly clad. the ait* was bitterly
cold: the wind groaned in the branches
of the trees, and penetrating rain drift
ed over the country. when the ol
man returned, he was benumbed.—tin
dropsy from which he had long suffered
mounted to his chest, and too soon it be
came appparent that all remedies were
useless. he was with difficulty trans
ported to vienna, where he was visiter
by a physician,*■ who pronounced hii
case a hopeless one. hummel, hi:
dearest and truest friend, heard of hi:
danger, and flew to attend him in hi:
last moments; but lie was almost in
sensible. the words he sought to utter
expired on his pallid lips. still hi
i recognised his early friend, and thank
ed him with a mournful smile. hum
mel pressed the icy-cold hand within hi;
own with deep emotion.
when the dying man felt the pres
i sure, his glazed eye kindled with a mo
inentary consciousness,
i he sunk back upon die pillow 1
with a gentle sigh the spirit ha<
fled.
till: seven-shilling piece.
it was during the panic of 1826, tha
a gentleman whom we shall call mr
thompson, was seated with somethin*
of a melancholy look in his dreary bacl
room, watching his clerks paying aum
j thousands of pounds hourly. thomp
i son was a banker of excellent credit
there existed perhaps in the citv o
london no safer concern than that o
messrs. thompson co.; but at i
moment such as 1 speak of, no rationa
reflection was admitted; no former &ta
bilitv was looked to; a general distrus
was felt, and every one rushed to hi:
banker's to withdraw his hoard, fear
iul that the next instant would be to<
late, forgetting entirely that this step
was that of all others the most iikelv ti
insure the ruin besought to avoid.
but to return. the w ealthy citizen sa
gloomily watching the outpouring o
ins gold, and with agrnnsnnle listening
to t he clamorous demands on hi:
cashier; for although lie felt perfectly
easy and secure as to the ultimate
strength of his lesources, yet he coulc
nut repress a feeling of bitterness as lit
j saw constituent after constituent rusl
j in, and those whom he fondly imagines
to be iiis dearest triends, eagerly assist
ing in the run upon his strong box.
presently the door opened, and
stranger was ushered in, who, aftei
gazing for a moment at the bewilderec
banker, coolly drew a chair, and ab
ruptly addressed him: you will par
don uie, sir, tor asking a strange ques
tion; but 1 am a plain man, and like tc
come straight to the point.
‘weil, sirr impatiently interruptec
the other.
‘i have heard that you have a run oi
your bank sir
‘well?’
‘ls it truer 5
•really, sir, 1 must decline
to your very extraordinary query. if
however, you have any money in the
bank, you had better at once draw it
out, and so satisly yourself, our casbiei
will instantly pay you; and the bankei
roae, as a hint for the stranger to with
draw.
‘far trom it sir, i have not one six
pence in your hands.’
1 hen may i ask what is your busi
ness here?’
i wish to know if a small sum would
aid you at this moment?’
*w hy do you ask the question?*
‘because if it would, i should gladly
pay in a small deposit.’
the money dealer atared.
•\ou seem surprised; you don’t
know my person or my motive. i’ll at
one# explain do you recollect some
twenty years ago vrtien you rcsidrd in
essex
■perfectly.’
‘well, then, sir, perhaps you have
not forgotten the turnpike-gate through
.which von passed daily? my father
kept that gate, and was often honored
by a few minutes chat with you. oue
christmas my father was sick, and 1
attended the toll bar. on that uay you
j passed through, and i opened the gate
for you. l)o >ou recollect it sir*'
not 1, my friend.’
no, air; few such men remember
their kind deeds, but thoae who are
benefited by them seldom forget them.
1 am perhaps prolix; listen, however,
only, a few moments, and i have
done.’
the banker began to feel interested,
and at once assented.
'well sir, as i said before, i threw
open the gate for you, and as 1 consid
ered myself in duty bound, i wished
you a happy christmas. ‘thank you,
tny lad,* replied you—thank you, and
the same to you; here is a tntie to
make it so; and you threw me a seven
j shilling piece, it was the first money
i ever possessed; and never shall 1 for
get iny joy on receiving it, or your kind
smile in bestowing it. i long treasured
it, and as i grew up, added a little to
it, till i was able to rent a toll inysclt.
vou left that part of the country, and i
lost sight of you. yearly however, 1
have been getting on; your present
brought good fortune with it; i am now
i comparatively rich, and to you 1 cou-
i sider i owe all. so this morning, hear
ing accidentally that there was a run
:on your bank 1 have collected all my
capital, and have brought it to lodge
i with you, in case it can be of any use;
here it is; and he handed a bundle ol
bank notes to the agitated thompson.
‘ln a few days i’ll call again;’ and
snatching up his hat, the stranger,
throwing down his raid walked out ol
the room.
thompson undid the roll; it contain
ed £30,000! the stern hearted bankei
—for all bankers must be stern —bursl
into tears. the firm did not requirt
this prop; but the motive was so noble
i that even a millionaire sobbed—he
could not help it. the firm is still one
of the greatest in london.
the £30,000 of the turnpike boy is
now grown into some £200,000. for
tune has well disposed of her gifts.
kindness, the best punish
ment.
a quaker of exemplary character
was disturbed one night by footsteps a
round his dwelling; and he arose iron
his bed, and cautiously opened a bacl
j door to reconnoitre. close by was ai
out-house, and under it a cellar, neai
a window of which was a man busily
engaged in receiving the contents o
his pork-barrel from another within th<
j cellar. the old man approached, ant
the man outside fled, he stepped u[
to the cellar window and received th<
pieces of pork from the thief within
who, after a little while, asked his sup
posed accomplice, in a whisper. “shal
we take it all?” the owner of th<
pork said softly. “yes, take it all,’
and the thief industriously handed u|
the balance through the window, am
then came up himself, imagine hi;
consternation when, instead of greeting
j his companion in crime, he was con
fronted by the quaker. both were as
tonished, for the thief proved to be i
near neighbor of whom none wouh
have suspected such conduct h<
pled for mercy, begged the old mar
not to expose him, spoke of the neces
sities of poverty, and promised faithfully
never to steal again.
“if thou hadst asked me for meat,’
said the old man, “it would have beer
l given thee. 1 pity thy poverty and thy
weakness, and esteem thy family. thoi
art forgiven.”
the thief was greatly rejoiced, an(
was about to depart, when the old mat
said, “take the pork, neighbor.”
“no, no,” said the thief, “i don'
want the pork.”
“thy necessity was so great that i
led thee to steal. one half of the poll
thou must take with thee
the thief insisted he could nevei
eat a morsel of it. the thoughts o
the crime would make it choke him
he begged the privilege of letting ti
alone. but the old man was inexora
ble, and, furnishing the thief with a
bag, had half the pork put therein, and
laying it upon his hack, sent him home
with it. he inet his neighbor daily for
many years afterward, and their fami
lies visited together, but the matter
was kept a secret; and though in after
time the circumstance was mentioned,
the name of the delinquent was never
known. the punishment was severe
and effectual. it was probably the first,
it was certainly his last attempt to
steal.
had the man been arramged before
a court of justice, and imprisoned for
the petty theft, how different might
have been the result. his family dis
graced, iheir peace destroyed, the
man’s character ruined, and his spirit
broken. revenge, not penitence,
would have swayed his heart, the scorn
ot the world would have darkened his
tuture, and in all probability he would
have entered upon a course of crime at
which, when the first offenco was com
mitted, his soul would have shuddered.
and what would the owner of the pork
have gained? absolutely nothing.
kindness was the best punishment, for
it saved while it punished.
little things not trifling.—the
nerve ot a tooth, not so large as the
finest cambric needle, will sometimes
drive a man to 4 distraaction. a inos
queto can make an elephant absolutely
mad. the coral rock which causes
a navy to founder is the work of an in
sect. that warrior that withstood
death in a thousand forms, may be
killed by an insect. the deepest
wretchedness often results from a per
petual continuation of petty trials. the
formation of character often depends on
circumstances apparently the most tri
vial. an impulse, a casual conver
sation, a chance visit, or somethiug
equally unimportant, has changed the
whole destiny of life, and has resulted
in virtue or vice—m weal or in woe.
policy. some one hu defined
policy to consist in serving god in a
manner not to offend the devil.