A WORD TO New York DIVInES.
The cloak of charity covered many
Sins. ut the name of is legi m
which hide themselves beneath tire am
.pic rn little of sectarianism. Her bor
doj*J aVu wjJe eji tilj'lt to end >se be
neath their folds'all pi liner of carrup
ti iii,. 'and much which charity huw«.
ever benignant, however forgiving*
strives 1n vain to hide beneath her
scanty garments. Many wrongs seulh
mid crouch in the protecting presence
of. sectarianism, confident of security
in their very littleness, and others ot
giant growth stalk unrebuked and bold
in their very strength. There is no
sin, however hideous, over which she
will not throw the Christian garb, if she
can increase thereby her own influ
ence; and as the devil qu -tea scripture
to justify himself to his children, so she
will make broad her phylacteries with
texts from the Law and the Gospel, it
thereby she may swell the number cfl
her devotees.
We have before us an address to the
American Churches, issued recently,
and signed by the Rev. l)rs. Spring,
Ting, and some three or four other
well-known clergymen of the gospel
according to the New ork pluttorm.
The object it aims at is pre-eminently
a sectarian one, and the prejudice it
appeals to—it appeals to that and na
tional vanity alone—is the popular one
against Catholicism. It is crowded
from beginning to end with the cant ol
orthodoxy, and fairly hisses with the
sniffling pietism of the American meet
ing-house. Its ostensible purpose is to
solicit aid for a mission to France.
Protestantism in France has sent an
emissary to this country to fraternize
with the Protestantism of America.—
This is a matter which concerns the
Catholicism of that country and this,
and site is abundantly able to take care
of it. Our private opinion is, that the
religion of Paris is as good as the reli
gion of New York, and that an ex
change, could one he effected,would be
decidedly in our favor. We doubt if
the men in blouses would know or per
form any better their duty to their fel
lows, were they to have the advantage,
once a week of the droppings from the
Sanctuary opposite our office, where
the spiritual ladle is in the hands of the
Rev. Or. Spring,or of any of those of ids
co-signers to this address; and we are
quite sure that these Rev. gentlemen
and their flocks might learn a valuable
lesson from the men in blouses. There
are certain great princples of Chris
tianity which the French people are
striving t 0 carrv j tl t 0 very practical
operation just now under the motto of
Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.
Nevertheless we are very willing that
at lo i< ism and Protestantism should
tight .ml .h.-.r d I.alOe, and do not at
*ll wonder that 1(! at r shoilld uUe
hie disturbed condition ol
the Catholic countries to strike a hi >w
for their side of I be question. Strategy
a,, ihoseade are a„ n| o rta„t part of
military tact.es, and there is no great
difference between these and tho.dogi-
Ml. I)r Spring and hi. compatriot,
«re doubtless good tacticians, ai|< i are
pot wanting in that essential element of
suceeax—boldness. But in rtlc
ular ca-’C their valor runs to rashness
Their bravery is nothing but effront
ery; their sectarian zeal has over
stepped the bounds of prudence and
modesty, and put on the brazen front ol
impudent hypocrisy. Had they kept
within t leir proper sphere, and advoca
ted a crusade in France, only because
Protestantism is better than its old en
THE NORTH STAR,
cmy, we, for one, should have hardly
cared which succeeded io building up
a sectarian organization at the expense
of the true church. There is an old
proverb with which honest men may
comfort themselves in such a scramble.
But Dr. Spring and hts friends have
chosen to make their appeal to the
American churches in a new language,
i The signs of the timea,” they nay,
cannot well he misunderstood.
j The Governor among the nations is
coming out of his place to shake terri
bly the earth.” It is not, tliey hope,
“with unhnllpwcd emotions” that they
j regard at such a time “the prominence
I which the God of heaven has assigned
ito our own favored land. It is a re
i markabh* fact that the revolutionary
nations-are looking with hope to the
American people.” An appeal for aid,
they add, comes emphatically from
France; from Paris; from the land of
the Huguenots; where they have sought
in vain for ages the liberty where
with Christ makes us free;” but where
the gospel has now* free choice; where
the word of God is not bound;
where the pure gospel is now accessible
to the people in every form; and whose
affecting cry 19, come over and help
us.” France now solicits the word of
God; an open door is set by him “be
fore the American Churches,” which
shall remain open if the call be an
swered, and France be beautified with
His salvation.”
If the Governor among the nations
meant ever to shake terriblv the
earth,” in any other sense than that
corrupt institutions, in the fullness of
time, bear corrupt fruit, we doubt if it
would have been put of!* till the 19th
century. There has not been wanting
any time these five thousand years
good cause of interference of omnipo
tent power to overthrow wrong and es
tablish right, if such were the ways of
I God’s providence. But we marvel that
these men all reverend, and almost di
vine as they are, can venture, while
they bold to ouch a faith, to stay among
brick houses. Of all the nations on
the face of the globe, should jus
j tice be meted out ea.efully, there is
j not one tiiat so much merits a shaking
as our own. Should she get her de-
I serts, “a terrible shaking indeed
would be hers; such an one as «would
make a residence am mg brick meeting
houses, like this which frowns upon us
from over the way, dangerous in tiie
extreme. Hid we, with these gentle
men, believe in such general shaking
as a special PyoWdence, such is our
faith itt'cArnal ’|iWc£/TKSt \ve should
fiffer*up, with the strongest hope of im
mediate response, the prayer of the
Scotch puritan, who, referring to some
Popish opponent, cried out*, Shake
him, O L >id! shake him right over the
pit of hell; hut dinua, O Lord! let him
fall in!” Hts not Hr. Spring some
fear of retributive justice Had he
and his friends no compunctious visit
ings while preparing this address?—
W ere there not, in their mental vision
dim spectres in multitudes—millions of
weeping women, wretched children,and
strong men bowed down in agony—of
the black slaves of their own country?
Could tliey close their ears to the
“dumb inarticulate cry of the poor
enslaved at home who appeal to them
for deliverance from captivity?
They remember, and they hope with
no unhallowed emotions,” the promi
nence given to our “favored land.”—
Prominent, indeed, in her opportunities
1 and her promises, hut alas! prominent
now only for having forgotten the one,
j and used the other lor evil. Have the
reverend gentlemen no emotion to spare
for this? Could they not get beyond
the thick folds of their Protestant sec
tarianism one glimpse of the fact that
however much the gospel may have
been a sealed book in France, or open
ed only by proxy, that in the United
j States it is a forbidden book—forbidden
under pains and penalties—to one
sixth of the people, and opened by
themselves, the authorized expounders
of the word, as the authority fot
wrong? The Protestant colporteurs in
France could find at least Protestant
churches to whom to preach or give the
printed gospel. But the colporteur in
New* Orlea ts or Charleston, whether
Protestant or Catholic, would be re
warded with imprisonment if ceUght
with the Bible in his hands, or the word
of God in his mouth, wherewith to
teach the class that most needs religious
instruction and spiritual comfort. Did
you, most grate and reverend Doctors,
keep your countenances in their usual
solemn elongation, when you said thal
God had opened a door in France to
the churches in America to enter and
lead a nation to salvation—Protestani
salvation—when you know—none know
it better—that these very churchei
have shut up the American slave inth€
dark, deep dungeon of his bondage,
hopeless, helpless, and closed upon hur
door and window, so that not even s
rav of the light of liberty could pene
trate the gloom of his darkness? 1
you did not sinile in the consciousness
of this poorly-glazed hypocrisy, die
you not shudder when yon rememberec
the martyrs Drayton and Sayres, if
their comfortless and drearv~tiuugeon if
the capital of the country, while Liu
church of the land has not a prayer t<
breathe for their deliverance, or a re
monstrance for the tyranny so rampan
here, and which, yon so rejoice, ii
“withering” in the Old World? Du
you not shrink, for one moment, fron
the task of appealing for aid to spreat
the gospel in oilier lands, wlien in you
own, such an appeal comes from thi
new-made grave at Covington of th«
self-destroyed family, who preferred
death to slavery? Could you sileoct
the voice that would answer to tb
Come over and help utf*’—*•* we haw
j work at hone.”
bight is or no sex-truth is or no color—cod is ths father or vs all, and all we are brethren.
j
However, we presume the reverent
i* gentlencn neither thought nor cared fm
any of these thing#, and we are almo.r
[ashamed of prealing each idle qoes
i lions. Thoughts of Southern dungeons,
i and Southern graves of murdered
1 slaves slaves w Uo silently acted whai
Henry only said, “Give ine Libecty, oi
give ine Death”— are not ofteD trouble*
some to the reverend clergy of the Pro
testant Church of America. We doubt
if they thought of things nearer home
even than tlie other Bide of Mason and
Dixon’s line. The religion which sbiitl
itself op, and mumbles prayer daily in
Trinity church, might find occasion foi
Vdnr p wot tee om*. its ptrCepOi should il
step out into Wall rtreet. The poor
who are excluded from the fashionable
Sunday levees of Grace Cburch, are
i nevertheless not abolished from the
city. It is but a short walk from the
rectory of Dr. Ting to the “Swamp”
and Five Points” —the reason, per
haps, why both rectory and church
should be removed, as we understand
they are to be, to a more fashionable
neighborhood. Church street presents
an excellent field for missionary labor,
j though we would warn any sell-denying
I young clergyman from rushing into it,
in the expectation, from its name, that
it is conversion from one church to an
other that is needed there. Nor need
these appellants for aid to France go
even to such localities to find appro
priate work for Christian divines. As
we have seen from our office windows
on Sundays the liveried lackeys, on a
1 long line of carriajjes, who wait outside
through sun and storm, for their mas
ters and mistresses who are loud in theii
holy devotions within the wails of Dr.
i Spring’s church, we have marvelled
I somewhat at so much care for mortal
i bodies, and so little for immortal souls.
Would it not he well, if Protestant
■j preaching is really of so much import
ance as to call for divine interposition,
that these Ifev. gentlemen should fol
-1 low the divine example, and open the
door” of the New Fork churches, to
the dependents of their rich parishion
i ers, and preach the gospel to the poor,
—a gospel that will teed both soul and
body
The Appeal, however, we have no
•doubt, will be responded to. Secta
rianism does not want lor supporters,
who will rejoice in the opportunity of
compounding for their shortcomings at
home, by damning those abroad com
milted 1 by otiicr peopie. The French,
however, gre not slow at detecting ab
surdities, and thit»ruett«e-Ttep
pen to striktjthcm in the right light,the
erv would not be “come over and help
us,” but the "more characteristic, na
tional expression, tire la bagatelle!
FREE TERRITORY STATE COX-'
VEXTIO.V OF OHIO,
Held nt Cilu nhui, on the 2'JtA an l 21 it June., 114 S
The Convention met in the'Demo
cratic-Mall, in the Statesman building,
and temporarily organized by calling J.
P. Kirtland, of Cuyahoga county, to
the Chair, and appointing F. M. Keith,
i of Stark county, and John C.Vaughan,
of Hamilton county, Secretaries.
Delegations were in attendance from
1 nearly every Congressional District of
the State, and also from Indiana.
The following Resolutions adopted:
Whereas, we have assembled in Con
vention as the Friends of Freedom,
Free Territory and Free Labor, willing
and desirous to co-operate with any
party thoroughly resolved and inflexibly
determined to permit no farther exten
sion of Slavery, and to resist the
alarming aggressions of the Slave
power, but prepared also, in the event
that each of the great political parties
1 should nominate candidates unfaithful
to Freedom, to act as befits men deter
mined to resist, by all constitutional
j means, the introduction of slavery into
National Territories
And whereas, the Convention styling
itself Democratic, assembled at Balti
more, on the *22d day of May, ISIS,
nominated for the Presidency, Lewis
Cass whose recent ardent friendship
for the Wilmot Proviso has been sud
denly converted into decided hostility by
the operation of Presidential operation:
1 and the Convention, styling itself
assembled nt Philadelphia on the 7the
!day of June, 1848, nominated for the
Presidency Zachary Taylor, a large
slaveholder of the extreme South, who
lias never avowed, a sentiment in favor
1 of the restriction of slavery, but from
his position, circumstances, habits and
associations, must be prepared to be
favorable to its extension
And whereas, among the principles
of Ohio avowed by her Legislature,
cherished by her citizens, and incorpo
rated in her fundamental law, none are
more firmly fixed than this of opposi
tion to Slavery Extension
Ist. Resulted therefowe That this
Convention, and the Freemen whotn
this Convention represents, unwilling
to submit to slavthoidiug dictation, but
determined, now and hereafter, at all
limes and under all circumstances, to
resist inflexibly the aggressions of the
Slave Power, reject, with indignation,
the nominations dictated by the slave
holders to tin? Baltimore and Philadel
phia Conventions, as utterly unworthy
of (he support of noaslavcboldiagjree
men.
•2d. Resolved,' TW the Proviso of Jef
ferson, to prohibit the existence ef slav
ery after 1800, in all the territories ol
the United States, southern and north
ern the votes of six states and sixteen
delegates in Congress for the Proviso,
to three states and seven delegates
against it the actual exclusion of
-slavery from the Northwestern Territo
ry by the ordinance of 1787. Unani
mously adopted by Congress end the
entire history «f the* period, clearly
.show that it wax the settled patio* of
the nation not to exteqgl or n mfonelme,
*iv. m J 9 JfcA*
ROCHESTER, ft Y, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1848,
but io ffrnit and localize slavery and
to this policy, which ought never
hdve been departed lYom, the govern
meet Ought rmiiiediatetr to mom
3d. Jfossfoed, n.Ot our tethers or
fdained the. Constitution of the United
j States to establish justice, promote the
j general welfare, and secure the bless?
j mga of liberty but expressly denied
to the Government which they created,
j all constitutional power to deprive any
person of life, liberty or property with
out dde legal process.
I 4th. Resolved That in the judgment
of thitTCoavention, Congress Tibs no
power slavery. No such
pbtfer can be found among those
specifically conferred by the Constitu
tion or derived by implication from
them.
sth. Resolved, That Congress hav
ing no power to authorize slavery in
the territories, is bound by every con
sideration of reason, justice, sound
policy and constitutional obligation to
prohibit its introduction.
Gth. Resolved, That we accept the
1 issue tendered us by the slaveholders,
and to their demand for more Slave
J Slates and more Slave Territory, our
answer is No more slave States and
no slave Territory.,’
?th. Resolved, That we greatly ho
nor the bold, honest and independent
conduct of the New York Democracy,
in maintaining the principles of Jefl’er
son against the extension of slavery
and of her delegates to the Baltimore
Convention, in refusing to accept seats
in that body upon conditions dishonora
ble to their constituents and iusulting
to them, and we earnestly desire to co
operate with them in the approaching
struggle for Free soil—for Free men.
Bth. Resolved That we repose full
confidence in the purity, wisdom, pat
j riotism and firmness of John McLean,
j His opinions that “slavery can exist
I only by virtue of a special law;” that
i “the common law, national law and
law oi nature are opposed to it;” that
the relation of master and slave is an
a;tiiioiul relation, created by the muni
cipal law and consequently cunnot exist
beyond the binding influence of such
law and that Congress has no
power to constitute slavery anywhere,”
meet our warmest approval and hcart
icst concurrence.
j; 9th. Resolved, That Preston King,
John Van Buren, George Kathbun and
r their associates, by their indomitable
courage and inflexible»perseverance in
Jbadiug.. the Nw*» Yurk Democracy
[against the combined forces of Hunker
ism and slavery, have entitled them
selves to the admiration of all lovers ol
Freedom and haters of Despotism.
10th. Resolved, That the independent
1 and fearless speech and conduct of Jo
shua R. Giddings, John G. Palfrey,
Amos Tuck, Jr, and David Wilmot
and their worthy colleagues in Con
gress, in opposition to t.iC demands ol
the slave power and of Henry il
son aud Charles Allen ot Massachu
setts, and of Lewis D. Campbell, D. R.
Tilden and Samuel Gall >way ol Ohio,
in opposition to the nomination of Gen.
Taylor, in the Philadelphia Conven
tion, meet our cordial approval, and
correctly express the determination ol
i the freemen of the free States,
i 11th. Resolved. That John P. Hale—
the first rebel against Hunkeriam and
j Slavery in the Democratic party, and
the first victor over their combined
powers—by his bold and uncoinpromis
sing defense in the Senate of the United
States, of free speech, free printing,
free soil and free labor against the
aggressions of the slave power, has
won for himself the enduring confidence
and affection of all true hearted Ameri
cans.
12th. Resolved, That we recognize
t as valid that interpretation of the doc
trine of tree soil which assures to actual
settlers, under suitable limitations, the
free grant of reasonable portions ol
the public Domaiu, as permanent homes
for themselves and their children aud
we fully believe that the Iree and inde
pendent yeomanry, wliich such a policy
would create, would prove, in every
emergency, the surest safeguard and
defence ot free institutions,
i 13th. Resolved, That we demand a
retrenchment of the expense* and
patronage of the Federal Government,
tlie abolition of all unnecessary offices
and salaries, and the election by the
people of all civil officers in the service
of the Government, so far as the same
inay be practicable.
14th. Resolved, That we demand
Freedom and Established Institutions
for our brethren in Oregon, who are
now exposed to hardship, peril and
massacre by the reckless hostility ol
the slaveholders to the establishment ol
a Free Government for a Free Terri
tory.
jStfc. Resolved, That we invite a!
Friends of Freedom free Territory ant
Fr* Lai»er opposed to the election ol
Cass or Tavlor, to assemble in Conven
tion at Buffalo, on the 9th day of An,
gust, 1848, to aoroioate candidates foi
the Presidency and Vice Presidency ol
the United .Stales, aad take swell othei
measures as the crisis requites.
16th. Resolved That we earnestly
recommend to the Fre«nienof Ohio, t<
support no ms* Tor Congress or th<
State Legislature who is oof an assure*
friend and faithfiil maintainer of tin
principles of freedom, and ready to act
independently, with aay party, oj
against any party, as the cause of free
dom Free Territory and frets Ura
may retire.
|7ib. Resolved, That we deem it in
expedient, artWs time, «d make anj
nomination for Governor.
18th. Resolved That R S. Hamlin
Thomas Balton, Edward Wa*. T. C
Floyd, and Joseph hymn j* Cy»
CmnroWee?’ autbori=*dTo act for tk*
independent Friends of Freedom, fre<
Territory end Free Labor, m»tH tfa«
appointrnent ©f their successors by I
subsequent State Convention, and thai
they be asthonzd to fill their ©wt
vacancies and appoint corresponding
members in each count/.
19tb. Resolved, That for the advaace
ment of our cause we put our trust in
God and invoke His guidance in our ef
forts for the redemption of our country
from the yoke of the Slave Power.
20th Resolved —(Ont&otionof Jamei
A. Briggs, of Cuyahaga)—Thst we de
mand tor the people of the West an
adequate system of River and Hnrboi
Improvements, uhd'we firmly believe
that the ascendancy of the Slave Pow
er in the National councils has hitherto
constituted the chief obstacle to the
j adoption of such a system.
21st. Resolved —(On motion of P.
[Blise, of Lorain) —That a newspaper
devoted to Freedom, Free Territory
and Free Labor, be established in the
city of Columbus, and we pledge our
selves to extend its circulation.
22. Resolved, That the Proceedings
and Addresses of this Convention be
I published in all the Independent papers
of the State in favor of Free Soil f» I
Freemen, and also in pamphlet form,
and that we earnestly recommend to
°ach county in the State to take efiT
i-tent measures for the circulation of the
I Proceedings and the Address to the
people of Ohio in every county and dis
trict.
OHIO STATE LIBERTY CONTEN
TION,
Held at Columliis June 22d, 1848.
i The State Convention met in pursu
i ance of the call of the State Committee,
at the city of Columbus, on the 22d ol
June, 1848, and was organized in the
Hall of the House of Representatives,
by the appointment of A. A. Guthrie,
of Muskingum county, as President: ol
Dr. Martin, of Fayette county, and
Amos Moore, of Hamilton county, as
I Vice Presidents, and S. Matthews of
Lake county, and H. H. Sperry, of
Hamilton, as Secretaries.
Prayer was offered by the Rev. Mr.
Boucher.
On motion of Q,. F. Atkins, of Cuya
hoga county, F. D. Parish, of Erie,
James Biruey, of Hamilton, 11. L.
Preston, of Columbiana, G. W. Ellis,
of Licking, and James D. Taylor, ol
4 Summit, were appointed a'committee
to prepare*and report resolutions for the
consideration of the Convention,
j After the committee had retired,Sam
uel Lewis being called upon, forcibly
f and eloquently addressed the Conven
tion, and was repeatedly interrupted by
enthusiastic cheering. He was follow
ed by J. D. Taylor, of Summit Co., in
1 an animated address.
J In the speeches of both these gen
tlemen, the aggressions of the slave
power, and the despotic control over
the two great political parties, as man-
I itested by the Baltimore and Phila
delphia Presidential nominations, were
exhibited with clearness and power.
The committee on resolutions report
ed a series,which, after some discussion
upon the 2d and 3d, were all adopted
with great unanimity.
The following resolutions were
adopted:
Resolved, That we cannot consist
i ©fitly with our principles as Liberty
i men, support any candidate for Govem
or, or other office,who either expressly
j or by silence gives his sanction to the
nominations or proceedings of either
the Baltimore or Philadelphia Couven
tions.
Resolved, Thnt in view of the tran
scendant importance of united, harmo
nious and vigorous action in support of
candidates for the Presidency and Tice
Presidency, who are avowedly, openly,
heartily and unqualifiedly in favor of the
exclusion of slavery from national Ter
ritories, and opposed to the admission
4 of anv more Slave States, and the
support of candidates for Congress,
i and the State Legislatures, who will
act independently on all parties for the
advancement of the great cause of
j Freedom, Free Territory, and Free
Labor, we deem it expedient not to ex
pend our resources and energies upon a
1 canvass for the gubernatorial office this
year.
1 Resolved, however, That inasmuch
as future developments may render a
t course of action different from that con
temphited in the foregoing resolutions,
expedient and necessary, we hereby
I authorize the State Liberty Committee,
if in their judgment the cause ©f free
dom shall require it, to nominate a can
didate for Governor, or in the exercise
of their own disc ret on to call a State
Delegate Convention equal in numbers
[to tile Senators and the Representa
tives in the State Legislature, and
elected in districts and counties, by
District and County Conventions, to
make such nominations and take 1 such
j other action aa circumstances may re
quire.
Resolved, That we bare abiding eon
t fide nee in the ability, wisdom, pattotism
and faithfulnes* to the cause of free
dom of John P. Halo and Leicester
King; and so long as they continue otfr
candidates, we pledge them oi it cordial
l and unanimous stfpporf.
Resolved, That ia the event flint the
names of John P. Hale and Leicester
‘King shall be continued before the
People as tho candidate# of onr sopar
v ate organisation, an© the Independent
Free i errtt wf CtmywtFwi fit BufFdlo
.{shaft firtf to jhwseat ft candidates for
the of fMf Freemen of flia
{Free States, and of all tfa» Stales op
tposod to the deqpads of lb© rd«re
if****
Electoral Tichot, for tha amort ©f
the Liberty *eh
domination to a future State Conven
tion, it' they shall deem it expedient to
call one.
Resolved, That we hereby approve
holding a National Independent Free
Territory Convention at Buffalo, in purr
suance of the call of the Independent*
People’s Convention of Ohio,and earn
estly hope that it may be the means ot
uniting the people of the Free States in
a determined and persevering effort for
the final overthrow of the Tyrant Slave
Power.
Resolved, That while we hlso hearti
ly approve of the principles and mean*
urea set fortl|m the Resolutions of the
People** Condition, and are read).' to
co-operate with the Friends of Free-.
dom, Free Territory, and Free Labor, j
represented in that body, in the inde-|
pendent support of those principles and;
measures, and of candidates represent-1
ing them, we deem it our duty to de-|
clare, our fixed adherence to the prin
ciples and measures which as Liberty!
men we have heretofore adopted and
promulgated, and our unchanging de
terminaion never to cease our efforts
for the repeal of all unjust and partial
legislation, and for the abolition of sla
very throughout the (Juion by the Con
stitutional action of the National and
State Governments.
On motion of F. D. Parish, of Erie
county, the following resolutions were
also adopted;
Resolved, That the following per
sons be and they are hereby appionted
the State Liberty Committee, for the
current year, viz: James Birnev, Thos.
Heaton, Stanley Matthews, E. Har
wood, Amos Moore, A. A. Guthrie,
Dr. S. M. Smith, Dr. Adam 9 Jewett,
Edward Wade and Geo. McCulloch.
Resolved, That the State Committee
he authorized to raise funds to employ
lecturers and distribute publications du
ring the present canvass.
On motion of S. P. Chase, of Hamil
ilton, it was
j Resolved, That we recommend to the
Independent Free Territory Conven
tion, about to assemble at Buffalo, the
nomination of John P. Hale, of New
Hampshire, and Leicester King, of
Ohio, as candidates for the Presidency
and Vice Presidency of the United
States
On motion, it was,
Resolved, That we proffer our thanks
to the officers of this Convention tor the
fidelity and ability with whichthby have
performed their duty.'
The business of the Convention being
closed, it was
Resolved, That with devout grati
tude to Almighty G*>d, and with
J greatly increased confidence in the fi
j nal and speedy triumph of the glorious
cause of Freedom and Humanity,
this Convention do now adjourn with
out day.
TIIG DIFFERENCE.
It is amusing, if not instructive, to
look over the Whig and Democratic
papers übout these times It is well
known that there is great dissatisfaction
in both parties, with respect to the nom
ination of Cass and Taylor, and if all
signs do not fail, there will be tens of
thousands who will Ifolt in November,
and cast their votes for freedom. But
the way a Whig or Democratic editor
treats these disaffected ones—and how
easy he can make wrong right, and
right wrong, as the case may he—is a
caution, 'fake, for instance, a Whig
editor, and bear hint discourse of the
Wilmot Proviso Democrats of New
York. These are set down as men of
stern integrity and unbending principle,
who nobly spurn Southern dictation,
and are not governed by the motto,
“our party, right or wrong;” and
after some more hackneyed phrases,
the article winds up. with assuring
them that posterit) will do them
justice.”
In another column, the same editor
indites an article respecting those anti
slavery and anti-war Whigs who repu
diate the nomination of Taylor; but oh!
what “a change comes o’er the spirit of
his dream!” They axe spoken of as
Professed Whigs;” men of narrow
views,” wiioaim at distracting the party
and working its defeat, to the lasting
injury of—those who want office. They
are petted, then coaxed, then scolded,
in order to bring them back into tin?
Whig fold? and are plainly told that
they have no right to private judge
ment after the Grand Sanhedrim has
spoken.
The sarna course is pursued by the
Democratic papers, although rev *rsed
in the application. They see evident
marks of returning sanity hi the Pro
viso Democrats, and are expecting a
real political mil le ilium in the Demo
eratie family, before the Ist of Novem
ber. With respect to the W higs, how
ever,they see irreconcilable difficulties
the anti-slavery portion of them are
composed of “sferorer stuff tbarf to
abandon their faith, and bind them
selves four years longer to the slave
power.
We presume there editors tike great
credit to themselves for the ingenuity
displayed in splitting hairs, and show
ing that a certain coarse of action oa
the part of a Whig in little else than
treason on the part of a Democrat, and
tut vtrta; bat we think their readers
will arrive at a different conclusion,tad
judge that if it is the duty of a Whig to
repudiate bis party when it sacrifices
principle, it is the duty of a Democrat
to repiafcate Iris for the srine reason.—
Mercer lAumnar j.
ICT Nothing Is more easy than l«
magnify a trifling ewewnstanee n*o a
wrtori misfortune, by sufffcriwg the
mind to dwell upon, and place io.every
&£Jt2SLSZ £mx
foil* DICK, PttMsasa.
WHOLE N 0.—30-
THE PREHEAT AGS
No former age or people is to bo
compered with any since the invention
of printing; for since that time there
have been no insolated states, and con
sequently no insulated influences of tho
state ob its coinpon nt parts. Strangers
and returned travellers, Whom LyCurg
us excluded from his republic, like epi
sodes and the intervention of gods from
the dramatic unities, now trsrerse every
country under the name of missals and
waste paper. No one is airy longer a
lone, not even an island in the most
distant sea; comes it that ths
political balance of power of many states
collected under ot\e arm of the balance;
is rfow first mooted. Europe is an inter
laced, tnisgrowrr banyan forest, round
which the other quarters of the horld
lfke parasite plants, and nourish
themselves on its decayed parts. Book#
form a universal republic, a union ot
nations, or a society, whereby a secon’d
or duplicate Europe arises; which, like
London, lies in several counties and
districts. As now, on the one side, tho
book-pollen flying everywhere, brings
the disadvantage that no people can any
longer produce a bi d of flowers true
and unspotted with foreign colors—as
now no state can be any longer formed
purely, slowly, and by degrees from it
self, but, like an Indian idol, composed
ofdiflerent animals, must see the vari
ous members of the neighboring state#
mingled with its growth—so, on the
other side, through the ecumenic coun
cil of the book-world, thfc spirit of a
provincial assembly can no longer
slavishly enchain their people, and art
invisible church frees it Iront the visible
one. And therefore we educate now
with some hope for the age, because wo
know that the spoken word ot the Ger
man teacher is re-echoed by the print-
Jcd page, and that the citizen of the
world, under the supervision of the
universal republic, will not sink into
the citizen of an injurious state,
more because, though books may bp
dead, yet glorified men, their pupils Wifi
ever hold themselves ns their living
relatives. That the age writes so much
on education, shows at once ita ab
sence and the feeling ot its importance.
Only lost Things arc cited aboot the
street#. The German State itself ntf
longer educate# sufficiently; conse
quently the teacher*should do it in tiro
nursery, from the.pulpit, aryl from the
desk.- The foiFcing-hoase in Rome ana
Sparta are destroyed—in Sirtai in the
i Arabian desert sonic few yet stand—
theeid circle that the Sta.e should plan
and direct the education, and this a
-1 gain act on that, has been very much
rectified, or indeed squared, by <h6 art
i of printing; for now men, elevated a
bovc all state#, educate states; dead
men, for instance, like Plato; jtist as irt
the deep old morning-world, according
to the saga, angels with gloris, wund
ered about, guided, like children, the
new men who bad sprung outofthe ruins
and, having ended tliei.r instruction,
vanished into heavenn. The CHfth ac
cord ffg io Zach’s ingrnions idea, ha#
been formed from congregated moons,
one moon striking on the American
side, drove the deluge over the old
world; the sharp-pointed, wildly-up
piled Switzerland, i# nothing ntorO than
a visible moon, that oifce tumbled from 1
its pure ether down to the earth; and
so there is in intellectual Europe, far
more than in any age or quarter of the
world not addicted to printing, a con
gregation of soul-worlds, or of world
soi/ls, sr nt or fallen from heaven. Tho
great man has now a higher throne, and
his crown shines over a wider plain;
for he Works, nut only by action, but
also by writing—not only by action,
but also, like thunder, by an echo.—So
one mind influences its neighboring
minds, and through that the masses; us
many little ships draw a large one into
harbor, #o inferior minds bring the
great one to Shore that it may be un-
I laden.— R.chUr'u L/ernna.
1 Rroirr or PinnoN iii the Brit
ish Parliament. —The right of Peti
tion in the British House of Commons
i%more carefully guarded than in our
American Senate. In this body, peti
i tioos touching the subject of slavery in
the District of Columbia—a subject
clearly within the legislative power of
Congress—are virtually denied a bear
ing! The question of reception i# rais
ed, and this question is laid upon the
table, so that the petitions are not
really received by the Senate.
Now, let us see how our neighbor#
across the Atlantic, whom we sometimes
pity for enjoying So much less liberty
than we do, manage this matter. Ort
the 23th of March, Mr. Wakely pre
sented a petition to the Commons, from
’.James Beale a clergyman, praying
among other things, for the abolition of
the House of Lords. This was a prsy
'er for the abolition of a fundamental
part of the British Constitution,
j Sir R. login rose to a point of order.
I Ha objected to the reception of the pe
Ution. Mr. Hume rose to order. So
member, he said could, under the roles
l of the House, object to a petition be
-1 ing brought up. And the Speaker ron-
I curved. Sir R. Ingli* replied, eoMem*'
ing that no individual h w a n f[* r
i petition for the aboluioe of tfce Houee
of Lord.. S*r O. Urrr <*<r
receiving k. S.rJ. .h^M. I
ought Snt lo be rotortetd. Mr
Hun*- #ai«f the House had nothing t»
do with the opinion* of petitions, that
even petition# against Monarchy or for
a Republic ought fob« received Af
ter tow* farther conversation. Sir R
H. Ingles said, he was glad io hear
that the House was Wnfnhnort# against
the prayer of (he petition, and would
bow withdraw his objection to its re
ception.
So much for (be right of petition
the British In
The 6th Annual Meeting of the Western
Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Salem, Columbiana Co., on Wednesday, Thurs
day, and Friday, the 16th, 17th, and 18th of
August, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
U?t a full reproaenuuon of the slaves'
friends come up on this occasion from all
pans of 1)10 Great West. The political lead
ers are marshalling their hosts for a conflict,
heir followers arc rallying by hundreds oi
thousands to the support of their party ban
ners. Tune, and money, and labor tie ex
pended to aectifh their object. And shall tb«
rteods of freedom, w hose faith should be
iitoog is the power of Truth, be lukewarm
V»d utdtffureiti while politicians are so ear
■ert m their tabors, so untiring in their seal!
The areata of the past year should encourage
us to tune wed effora, for erery movement o
mportance which has been made, bating an]
baanng upon the question of slavery, fore
shadows the destruction of the svstem, ao<
the oppressors feel that it is so. The politics
parlies will make s desperate effort to savi
themselves from the destruction their corrup
non has brought upon them; and the effort
of the abolitionists to maintain and enfora
the Right should be proportionally great.—
Arrangements should be made at the coming
meeting 10 continue tiie anti-slavery agiuuot
by the lips of the living speaker, and to ex
lend more widely the circulation of the So
ciety’s paper—the Anti-Slavery Bugle. I*e
none of the friends who can be there, abeen
themselves for any light cause, for the pre
senceof all, and thj coucsd of all is desira
ble.
Besides the friends of Liberty in the Wes
who will be present on the occasion, llenry
Wright and Chas. C. Bcri.kjgh are ex
pected to be m attendance, and perhaps othei
representatives of the East.
__ UJT HOLMES, Itec Sec.
.Meetings in the West.
Henry C. Wright, the Apostle of Peace,
and (.barb's C. Burleigh, the eloquent Anli
shvery Advocate, will hold meetings at tht
following places, viz: at
Pittsburgh, Pa. June 15th, 16th 17th
New Brighton, 20th
Louisville Ohio 22d
Youngstown, 24th 25th
New Lyme 27th
Painesville, 20th
Chagrin Falls, July Ist 2d
Cleveland, 4th
Twinsburgh, 6th
R. hlicld, Bth 9th
Akron, lul,
Rtvenna, 13th 14th
Rtndolph, 15th 16th
Massillon, 18th
The meetings at New Lyme, Cleveland,
t d Akron, will commence at ten o'clock, A.
nl.; the others, on the first day of the meet
ngs at two o'clock, P. M.; subsequent days
at 10 A. M.
The friends of Anti-Slavery and of Peace
tfe requested to make all necessary arrange
ments for the meetings, and give as wide a
notice as possible. Now is the time to
agitate.
Persons can avail themselves of this op
portunity afforded by these meetings to pav
f »r the Anti-.Slavcry Standard, to Samuel-
Bkook t.
Freedom’s Jubilee.
CELEBRATION AT ROCHESTER, TUESDAY, AUG.
Ist, 1648.
The friends of Freedom in Western New
York, w ill commemorate the day which gave
freed n to 860,000 human beings in the
cst India Isles, and also tender a tribute of
gratitude for the recent French demonstration
of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.”
ORDER OF THE DAT.
Preliminary exercises at the Ford Street
Baptist Church, commencing at 11 o'clock
A. M. A procession will then be formed at
12 o'clock under the direction of the Mar
shals, Henry Scott, John Douglass, and Elza
M. Johnson, and proceed to Washington
Squa in the follow ing order
Ist. Music.
2d. Benevolent Societies of Rochester and
other places.
3d. l'reeiileui and Vice-President.
4th. R?v. Clergy.^
sth. t ’rators and Reader.
6th. Colored School .J
7th. Committee of Arrangements.
out. Citizens and Strangers.
EXERCISES AT THE SQUARE.
Prayer.
Freedom's Ode—By the Liberty Vocalists.
Remarks by the President of the day.
Reading of the British and French Eman
patton aetfe, by David H. Ray.
Music Address by Fred. Douglass.
Bftistc Address by Charles Lenox Re*
mond.
Mkistc Address by Henry W. Johnson,
of Canandaigua.
Benediction.
All riends of Humanity are invited to par
ticipate. Come as the waves come!
N. B. Committee of Arrangements will
meet at 10 o'clock A. M., to appoint Vice-
Pr vidents an I to designate the place lor next
celebration.
Kochester, July, 1848.
THE CALL.
t
THE GREAT NATIONAL CONVEN
TION OF COLORED FREEMEN of the
United Stales, will be held in Cleveland,
Ohio, coramencmg on Wednesday, the sixth
d .y of September next.
Let the Colored Freemen all rally to jhis
i n port ant gathering. This is a crisis, and
something we must and will do
We hope to see the East, North, South
1 West, come up in one mighty, unbroken
phalanx, to do battle for God and humanity
Signed, by request of Illinois, Indiana,
Michigan, anid Ohio, (the Western parts of
New York and Pennsylvania being ready.)
M. R. DELANY.
Hamilton, Ohio, June 6, 1846.
ID* Mystery, and all friendly papers, please
py
Notice.
More Rebellion. —A meeting of the
opponents of Cass and Taylor, will be held at
the Court House, Canandaigua, on Thursday
the 27th inst. Henry B. Stainton, Esq.
and other gentlemen will Address the meeting.
Tiir Elevator. —Whirh used to be pub
lished to this city, but which had been suspen
ded for several years, has been revived, and
in now published as a regular weekly paper.
Two numbers of the new series have made
their appearance. It purports to be pub
lished and edited by James McCrnmmel and
William Grantee, office 266 North Third
etreet.” Tho prospectus says:
This paper will bo devoted to the moral
and political elevation «f the Colored Com
munity, it will advocate «be general education
of our people, and inculcate the principles of
temperance, morality, and republicanism,
founded upon tbe basis that nuu> cannot right
fully hold property in human beings and iia
columns will be open for fro* diseuwKon on all
■objects wherein oor people may differ, rela
tive t*> the adoption of plans for the moral
good of the community.”
These see taodfble objects, and if faithfully
afhered to and mteUigenUy and judiciously
advocated should secure for the Elevator the
support of every kmd to the colored m*n.
The naper is p« Mashed every Saturday,
«r 266 North Third etmet. Price 9 eia, the
tingle number or $1.96-per annum.—Perm.
Pismaaw.
Ipy An apprentice in Pluladelphis has been
1«-<>-u|v Iro-H Ir.en |«m mdeniures because his
FnaiktUßnkr.
Editorial Alwtw,
Since my ilbew el the Wen, lest autumn,
my bodily iptem Imm been peculiarly mm
ccpuhks to atmospheric changes, and my
health easily impaired by metal esmemenf,
and eoutitraous public labor; oo as nytnglv
to interfere with the regular discharge of the
various duties devolving upon ms. Under
these circumstances, aod by the advice of
1 some of my must valued fi tends, I have eon*
i eluded to try the efficacv of the hydropathic
j system at Dr. Ruggles’ Water Cure Infirmary
at Northampton for a short time at least,
(some three or four months.) as a matter of
experiment. My confidence in that mode of
cure n very great; but it requires some
courage and perseverance, aa well ms faith, on
the part of the patient, especially if, like my*
self, he is much more disposed to pet into
‘hut water' than into cold. In the judgment
and skill of Dr. Haggles, 1 place entire con
fidence for, thus far, Iris great success de
serves it —and the kna of his sight has only
served to quickeo bis seosibilty of touch, by
which he is enabled to determine, with extra
ordinary accuracy, the amount of electric eo
,j ergy which remains in the system, and hence
the almost certain result of the application of
the cold water treatment in each particular
case. Identified as he Is in complexion with
those whose cause 1 have so long pleaded bc
fore this tyrannical nation, I am all the more
j happy to commit myself to bis care. If he
1 can instramentally add to my frame and
elasticity to my mind, so that I can grapple
w ith the Slave rower more effectually than I
have been able to do for some time past, he
will do it, depend upon it! for there is no
one who takes a livelier interest in the anti
slavery struggle, or who is more familiar with
its rise, progress, and present position, than
himself. Indeed, it was his rare devotion to
the cause of his fettered countrymen, the
sacrifices that he made in their behalf, and the
sufferings to which he subjected himself, that
he might hide the outcast, and betray not
him that wandereth,” that finally cost him the
loss of his sight. During his residence in
New York, hundreds of fugitives from the
Southern prison-house were indebted to him
for succor and safety—among them, our re
nowned coadjutor, Frederick Douglass—by
all of whom he will ever be held in grateful
remembrance. His establishment at North
ampton is an excellent one, and the location is
one of the finest in the country. The water
is of the purest quality, and very abundant.—
Henry C. Wright says that his plunge bath
is superior to that at Graefenhurg. Long may
he live to bless his suffering fellow creatures,
and may it be possible for him yet to recover
his sight! But Milton was not more cheerful
in his blindness than is this worthy man.
It is with extreme reluctance that 1 leave
my post at the present stirring crisis, for eve
ry man who can render the'slightest aid to the
cause of liberty, is needed in the field of con
flict; but I hope to be not wholly disabled
from service, and shall try to inflict an occa
sional blow on the proud crest of tyranny,
that may do something toward delivering the
oppressed out of the hands of the spoilei.—
I shall probably be able to keep a general su
pervision over thf columns of the Liberator,
particularly as to the selected matter, during
my absence.
As to the editorial department, to whose
hands can I commit it more trustingly, as to
the ability with which it will be managed,and
the fidelity to the cause which will be exhib
ited in it, than to those of my incorruptible
and clear-sighted friend, Edmund Quincy
Of his talents, the Teaders of the Liberator
need no certificate; and that his pen is as
keen as a Damascus blade, the betrayers and
enemies of the anti-slavery movement know
full well. There are few writers whose style
is to racy, whose wit is ao sparkling, whose
satire is so effective, or whose rebuke is so
potent. He has kindly consented once more
to take the editorial chair, for the Cause’
sake, and for my own; and for this new proof
of his personal friendship, and of his interest
in the welfare of the Liberator, he has my
warmest gratitude.
I shall report progress,” from time to
time, to the readers and friends of the paper,
who will receive weekly a far more interesting
sheet for the next quarter than they have dur
ing the last. Mr. Quincy will commence his
editorial labors next week.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
Boston, July 14, 1848.
The Nominations.
The nomination of Gen. Taylor, by the
Philadelphia Convention, is thus welcomed
The Whig Party.—We believe the time
has come when men cannot be dragooned into
the support of principles abhorrent to the
spirit of the age, to the genius of our free
institutions, and to all the precepls of Christi
anity. The old parties are ripe, rotten ripe’
for dissolution. Long enough and too long
already, have they keept men fighting about
shadows, while oppression, corruption and
venality have borne away all the trophies.
The mask is, at length, thrown off. The
leaders of both parties now stand clothed in
the garments of treachery, so that all men
may see their rottenness. And we rejoice
that it is so. It is meet that a crisis like the
1 present should come, when men who have
hypocritically professed attachment to Free
dnm, should fed called on to assume theii
true character. If there are men in the
I Whig paatv willing to disgrace themselves
and betray their country into the hands of the
slave.power for the poor privilege of recetv
j ing the crumbs which fall from the slave
holders' table, God forbid that an opportunity
like the present should be wanting.
We will not, however, believe, and we dc
not believe, that the mass f the Whig party
can be coaxed or driven into this treachetv tc
Northern rights. We cannot believe they
will chain themselves to the car of a military
hero, whose laurels were all won in a war fot
the extension of slavery, and whose election
to the Presidency will he the certain con
summation of that iniquity for which the wai
with Mexico was begun.— N. H. Indepen
deni Democrat.
‘Hang be the Heavens in Black V
General Taylor u nominated for President,
and Millard Fillmore for Vice President.
Wc are indebted to Brother Bausman for i
slip from tne office of the Whig Tomahawk,
1 containing the result of thf first, second, am
fourth ballottngs for President by the Whi§
j National Convention. It wilt be acea thai
the first ballot was a little different from whs
it was reported in our extra of yesterday.
The nomination of General Taylor is i
disgrace to the convention, and an insult U
the intelligence and virtue of the Atnerieu
people.
Mr. Fillmore is a good man, and wouk
have been a thousand times better selectio*
for President than Gen. Taylor.
The Whig party ia basely betrayed*—aye
sold to the southern slave driver; and i
remains to be seen how Dtr the freemen of tbt
north will rntify the bargain.
For ourself, sink or swim, hat or die,’ wi
are against the nomination might end mein
heart and soul.- Lafayette Ini Journal.
Parson Brownlow, of the Jooesbon
(Tenn.) Whig, a warm partisan of Mr. Olsy
published the following just before the Phils
delphtt Convention;
*lf General Taylor is nominated for tin
i Presidency by all the Conventions that cm
meet in this life, end if he is the last and oali
candidate that ever the Whigs hsv« hetwam
this time and the day of judgment, wt wil
not support him or vote for him.
Article i* the Washivoto* Union.—
That previous to the nomtnauoe of Hr, Boa
croft, -as Minister to Greet Britain, the mi—ini
was offered by the PrettdeaC, fiaat Mr ex
Prcstdenr Van Baron, and nhwqniiiiij u
the Hop- John A. Dix
THE NORTH STAB.
ROCHESTER, JULY *l, 1849.
Pnici.
We gave ia oar last Maher telsgraphir
ioooudU of the r 1 appalling jam it* line
ia Pam, as early as they coaid lave received
then ia the eastern papers. The deep inter
est which a taken ia the affair* of France hy
reformer* in ibis country, sad tbroogboet the
world, has indoeed ns to publish this week a
more detailed accoent of tlna fearful strife.
Could the players ef the friend# of freedom
and humanity have availed, France might
have escaped this most terrific and bloody
baptism. Bat ho that taketh the sword shall
perish by the sword, remains the law of the
living God, and ia sore to execute itself. Far
the sake of Freedom and Progress,we lament
this sad result. Superficial men will charge
its evils upon liberty and Democracy, just as
tfie mat-practices of churches and professed
ministers of the gospel are too often charged
upon Christianity; and for a time the cause of
righteous liberty, must bear up under a
heavy load of reproach and infamy. Cal
houn, and the whole group of American man
stealers, will undoubtedly regard it as the
consequence of s too broad assertion of human
equality, and aa the folly of attempting to
erect a Republican edifice without baring sla
very for its corner-stone. But in answer, we
say, God reigns, and will yet vindicate the
right. He ia now teaching the world, by
French example, the folly of injustice, op
pression and wrong, and of relying upon the
sword for that which can only be accomplished
by the foolishness of preaching.
Respecting the immediate eause of tlie in
surrection, there seems to be considerable
doubt. Some in France think it the work of
foreign emisaries, who sought to overthrow
older and the Government by corrupting the
people with gold. This might be, to a cer
tain extent, true but the real cause must be
deeper doom than this supposition implies.—
Wretched must be the lot, and dark the minds
of those who could be bought for paltry gold
to involve their country in a common anaichv
and ruin. That designing and disappointed
politicians have bad a hand in this bloody
work, we have no doubt. Men who, foiled of
their ambition by honorable means, have re
sorted to this as the last expedient to accom
plish those purposes—deeming it better to
rule in hell than serve in heaven,” they have
sought to gain their preference through the
wild and wicked means of anarchy and
bloodshed. It appears from highly intelligent
sources, that this whole plotofhorrid destruc
tion had been maturing for weeks in the na
tional work-shops, and that the leaders
and chiefs on the side of the insurrec
tion, exercised as complete authority over
their men as that exercised by the officers
over the regular troops. This fact shows
plainly that the event has been the result of
no mere accident,but a long-determined, regu
larly-organized and skilfully-contrived plan to
subvert all order—that out of the wild chaos
and fury, itsprojectoTsmight snatch the bloody
reins of government.
But while this may have been true to a cer
tain extent, if the war-cry of the revolution
ists means anything, the communists of Paris
are chiefly responsible for this last confused
scene of human slaughter. They have been
the agents, if not the principals, in the con
ccin,* and to them must attach the gloty or
shame of the foul undertaking. Dark and
gloomy as is the prospect, we will not despair
of society in France. Even amid the wildest
elements of revolution, and what are called
the baser and more profligate sort, the prophet
may scan certain rays of character which
may kindle in his bosom a blaze of hope.—
The people, however mistaken and deluded,
evidently felt that they were fighting for their
just rights. They regarded themselves de
ceived and defrauded by the government, and
whether correct or incorrect, they acted upon
their belief. Two important lessons are here
taught the statesmen first, that the people
will not endure oppression and injustice when
they believe the means in their power to throw
it off; secoud, that however just and impar
tial may be the laws and institutions of a
country, there is absolutely no safety while
the great mass of the people are ignorant and
uneducated. Educate the people educate
the people, for herein is the safety of society.
The rest Uprising of the North*
These are glorious days. The grand
uprising of the North proves to be no cow
ardly sham, to be easily demolished but is a
granite reality. The Whig and Democratic
parties have rotted in the middle, and are fast
going to pieces, on the dashing waves of free
expression. New York leads the radical
Democracy, and Massachusetts, conscience
Whiggery. Discussion goes through the com
munity like a whirlwind through the stately
forest. High above the common din may be
heard the chosen watchword of Freedom's
marshaled host, Down with the slave pow
er!”—“No more slave territory!”—“No
more slave extension!”— 44 No more slave
Slates!”—•“ Slavery is s curse,” s dis
grace,” 44 a blot,” 44 a monstrous system”—
44 Fax* hex,” 44 Free soil,” 44 Free Terri
tory,” 44 Free States.” While this storm is
raging, slavery is entrenching itself behind
the hoary battlements of the Constitution and
Union, and is preparing for a desperate strug
gle. The whole tone of the Southern press
sod Southern statesmen, betrays the utmost
alarm; and those who affect unconcern for the
hie of their darling institution, do so on the
principle that the boy whistled while passing
through the borying ground. To limit sla
very when it now is, if it does not ahohsh it,
will at least fix upon h the nation's reproba
tion. Should the North gain in thin contest,
it will ho the first victory gained men the
formation of ihe Government.
The only danger which we apprehend to
the North, in the spirit of compromise, (so
called,) which always means, unjustly con
ceding to wrong n huge half of what jootly
belongs to right, for the asks ef penes and
preserving the Union.
CmygTiM t* Onoboaoa.— We perceive
in the Syracuse pepers, a call signed hy «n
one hundred Whigs, for n Convention of the
Whigs of Onoodwn, 44 who am not an yet
prepared to ground their mam as Whigs and
vets for (sea. Taylor who are tppswd la
the raamni ef Slavery over Ternary now
trso, and wha prefer pnacrple* to am
The Convention ia mbe held ee the Sid ait,
sad will 4 Inks into eeaaiimtioa the pro
priety of sanding dafofitsa to the Battle
Convention.”
bos done aTaswh to retard An antMamry
justly the bulwarks of Aaseriesa slavery, are
just now enjoying a temporary repose, the
wooes to which sari-slavery attention in at
present directed, being ptiliiirf! rather than
religious. They are not, however, to think
there#ches forgotten. The anti-slavery ad
vocate cannot forget, amfil the increasing
wanes at preseat made with the ataw power,
that the vital and aH-oompreheodutg oae, in
with a pro-slavery eharch aad a death dog
ministry. Them bodies are not just bow
poasiag reooletiocw aad seoding forth argu
ments is favor of slavery; they are sot en
gaged hi preaching directly against tbs anti
slavery movement; they are not no bodies
taking more than a passive interest in the
present straggle; bet as individuals, they are
active especially in rapport of the bloodhound
candidate. There are not a few of the lights
of the church of this eity, who are the un
blushing advocates of Gen. Taylor for the
Presidency, and are doing everything in their
power to ineream hi* pogobrity. We copy
the following from the Portland Pleasure
Boat, and command it to the bloodhound
religionists of Rochester and elsewhere:
44 Last second day morning, large sheets
containing the following were pooled up at
the corners of the streets in this eity. It
contains too roach truth to be lost; but as
Csss, the candidate of the other party, is in
favor of war and slavery, we advise all who
read it, to read Taylor and Cam instead of
Z. Taylor. There is no difference in the
parties-—both are as bad as they can be, and
are supported by the church:
GRAND RALLY.
THE CHUBCH AT THE NORTH COMING UP TO
THE SCrPORT, AND EXTENSION, AND PER
PETUATION or slavery!
The Church coming to the rescue of the
slaveholders!
The Church at the Norih rallying to sus
tain and ratify the nomination of another
slaveholder for the Presidency—of the war
rior with his garments rolled in the blood of
the murdered Mexicans—men, wfimen. and
children!—the noble warrior who recom
mended the purchase of bloodhounds from
Cuba, to hunt the poor Seminoles from the
everglades of Florida, to which they had fled
from their burning homes and the pursuit of
a merciless slavehunting foe!
Yes, the Church is rallying to the support
of Gen. Zachary Taylor. Come, then, fel
low-citizens, with such noble Christians as
Deacons Levi Cutter, William Swan, Royal
Lincoln, Woodbury Storer, James Crie, and
a host of lay brethren—come, all who delight
in war, and in honoring the HERO who has
successfully carried forward the most ruthless
and diabolical war, as they alt avow, which
ever disgraced humanity, to the glorious ter
mination of the complete subjugation of a
weak nation, and the robbery of half her
territoiy Come, you lovers of robbery, and
pillage, and murder, of oppression, of human
chattelism, with all its attendant evils, rape,
incest, adultery, the prohibition of the word
of God to more than three millions of human
beings—Come all, and join the Church and
its officers in the support of Zachary Taylor
for the office of President of the U. Stages.
Don’t be cursed with loco-focoism any
longer!
The glorious Church, Without spot«or
wrinkle, has baptised ZACHARY TAY
LOR, the Slaveholding Warrior!
Misrule.
The English Government taxes Americans
two shillings on every letter that arrives in an
English port —a gross act of fraud and injus
lice, of which Americans rightly complain.—
Whereupon the American Government send
over anemisaaiy to negotiate an arrangement.
Whether because of the rapacity of the Eng
lish or the avarice of the American Execu
tive, this negociation fails to accomplish its
object. The English injustice and the Ame
rican grumbling continue. But lo and be
hold, the wisdom of Congress discovers a re
medy—the notable one of taxing all English
letters arriving in this country two shillings
also. They cannot contrive any other method
of remedying an injury, but the old and sav
age one of retaliation. 44 Meet wrong with
wrong, and thus prevent wrong,” is their
mode of action. This new postage arrange
ment is nothing more nor less than an atro
cious and inexcusable' robbery. As far as the
merchants in this country, having communica
tion with England, are concerned, it is a
matter of not much imports see. They can
bear it, or defend themselves. But the poor
emigrants who seek refuge in America from
the misery and want of the old world, are
deserving of our sympathy. How can they
ever receive any intelligence of their friends
and relatives, under such a system of grow
extortion 1 Just think of it. Before s letter
can leave an Engliab port, two shillings most
be paid for the poatage. On its arrival in an
American port, it is charged two shillings
more; altogether, on the arrival of a letter
thus far, the cost of postage amounts to uxty
oiu cents. Sixty-ooe cents for a letter, when
it has been demonstrated that five cents or
even leas would be amply sufficient to pay all
expenses, sad Rare a profit! Tkia ia a rob
bery which must not and will not be tolera
ted.—J. 0.
Lewis Harfoa.
This laborer ia the Anti Slavery vineyard
passed through Rochester a few days since ou
his way to Massachusetts, in company with
his family. Friend Hayden proposes to make
his home ia the East, aad to make himself
useful to the anti-slavery cause by circulating
anti-slavery intelligence among the people.—
He is authorized to aet as ageui sad obtain
subscriber* for the North Star.
Tee North Sta*. —Wo are every day
receiving letters, stating that the paper does
not come to hand. If our friends would aw
that their snbscn pttoa is renewed in good sew
son, they would save themselves and as
tro '»Me aad postage. We would remind our
resAets more, that subscriptions qttff*
•b—y fie paid ia advance. Nassea are iava
riebly struck off the list nmnedoudy on the
expiration ef the time npto which peyment ie
made.
TO OOMUEBPONDENIB.
J. A., Estsa, Ohio—A. P. 11. L. fowMr.
Ihrab Fiiaiml, too lets fir 4m
J. M., ffpmnu B. wired
The pager wil he mat as
C- P., New Lmdw.—Oe£md.
W. 6. R, Gnfom, Ohi*, find foe torn ea
foot page.
R. 8. O. aad J. 8., Land** Thi
tki nktrfinMt
UMMf the tosil of facdom m nki
appwthiny celebration ooe of the grandest
and fffwtha of soj ef«r held ui Wart*
cm New York. The Committee of Anange
i» ovmpoasl of mergetie btisHW— men,
iniooatj defied 10 the object, and who ste
determined that aothiag shall ho waotiog on
their port.
Come, friends, come from the country—
eoase bv tns, tens, and hundreds, that we
way hafl the day by thousands. Let every
man wearing a sable him, aad every one har
ing wtihia his bosom ooe five aad gtasroos
potation, come of aad devote ooe day to
the honor of holy freedom, aad do what be
may towards advancing the cause of Emanci
pation in our own land. In addition to Chas.
L. Retnond, Henry Johnson, and Frederick
Douglass, it is expected that Dr. Delany, as
sistant editor of the North Star,will be among
the speakers.
As Inquiry into the Nature of Hebrew Servitude.
By rutasm Barron, M. D.
A copy of this work has been sent as, ws
suppose with the expectation that it sboald be
noticed in the Star. Its desig%” says the
writer, is to show that the seriptaiTes of the
Old Testament do not sanction or tolerate in
voluntary servitude, nor recognite the right
of one person to hold property in another.”—
The writer, so far as we are able to judge,
from a cursory perusal, seems to be suceessfal
in his conclusions. The effort will be inter
esting to those who believe the law of Moses
to be above the law of right. To ns, how
ever, weare free to confess, it does not possess
much interest. Could it be proved to a demon
stration that Moses and the Hebrews practised
aqd approved of slavery—slavery as hellish
and abominable as that which is sanctioned by
this Republic, it would not stir us one iota
either in one direction or the other. All that
we could gather from such a fact, would be,
that Moses and tie Hebrews were bad men,
devoid of every sense of moral right. We
know full well that they could not have Divine
authority for h. Fot the only God we recog
nise, is that God who is always on the aide of
right and justice, and opposed to wrong and
oppression. There are many, however, who
have more tender consciences than we can lay
claim to; to them we recommend this
pamphlet.
Slaves Retaken. —The Frederick cor
respondent of the Baltimore Sun says:
Three negro boys, belonging to a Mrs.
jC/omtvell, near this city, who ran away
from their mistress ten or twelve months
since, were arrested in the Catocton moun
tains yesterday, and have since been sold to a
gentleman in Washington for 180.
lET’ Francis Jackson, President of the
Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, passed
through Rochester, in company with several
members of his family, on a tour to Niagara
Falls, on Fiiday last.
(Communications.
From our own Correspondent.
London, June 23, 1848.
Deaii Douclass,—- Europe is no quieter.
To begin at home. Mitchell's conviction, as
I before named, has been made the pretext
for violent and tumultuous assemblies in many
parts both of England and Ireland. They
have however, been attended with the most
insignificant results, except so far as they
have had the effect of strengthening the hands
of the executive. At present we are toler
ably quiet. The parties of old and young
Ireland are attempting to accomplish a fusion.
There is, however, no probability of its being
long successful. The O'Connells seem to
have an intense objection to the physical force
doctrines. Hume's motion for reform was
brought on in the House of Commons, on the
night of the SOtb. A lengthened debate was
adjourned until Friday. Lord John, of course,
it, but promised moderate reform.
The parliament has amply supported the con
duct of our government in the late Spanish
question the consequence has been that the
Spanish ambassador has le<i for Madrid;
what will be the upshot of this, no one knows.
The French appear almost as uneasy under
the republic, as beneath their inglorious mon
archy. [The rest of our Correspondent's
letter relating to France, is superseded by the
more recent intelligence which will be foui<d
in another column.— Ed.]
In Italy, many military operations have
taken place. The Italian army has all along
fought gallantly. Charles Albert has dis
played personal courage, amounting to rash-!
ness. The Austrian army is in full, though i
slow retreat. Radetjski has behaved with,
great cruelty to the Venetian towns on bis
line of march. The lower provinces of the
Austrian empire are in terrible confustoo.
The danger of their entire swiwis is here-1
by increasing. Tbs old question of race, 1
never entirely st rest, is being again mooted, j
A man ol considerable intelligence, with
whom I 4ms recently conversing—one who,
though a Frenchman by birth, has pretty,
well surmounted his old national prejudices,
without acquiring fresh ones, (and to whom
the many passages of a long sod eventful
career, have afforded numberless opportuni
ties of examining the tendencies and aspira
tions of moot nations of Christendom,) stated,
that be considered it almost a certainty, that
the Gear would not hesitate to take advantage
of the decrepitude of Austria, by potting him
self at the bead of the whole Sclavonic
nations the latter, (including Bohemians,
Hungarians, WaJWehtaiis, Moldavians, and
their mullitndinns con/rcrie,) are for more
anxious to be altogether quit d the Germans,
thrni to eaeape monarchical rule. Should this
take place, his swssiis of power will be is
raWiahhle. The Germans have lost ground
greatly in the Schleswig-Holstein affair.
The Duses have the better cause, the better
troops, and, best of all, the better fcskag.
The Swedes have proffered their assistance
le their brother Scandinavians; a Russian
Grand Duke has been eagerly welcomed at
Copenhagen. In Praams, the kiag is power-1
Ism; the people do almost what they will;
and to say rim truth, doing ns they have
rreeoUydseo, doss am da them mash credit.
in debate, is. in set**, AO
a tmnftin sswtnhs in inferring so long fesir
Psssrfrstssa. S. f. Q. B.
ter We publish, with the utmost pleasure,
the following excellent letter. We ere well
acquainted w ith the ertahhshmeot of which it
speaks, and base been an eye witness of th«
efforts made by ts philanthropic proprietors
to protect the interests, improve the morals
and elevate the cnaracter of the yoaths they
have in their employment.
Menu. Editors lf you think the sc
companytng accoant of a workman’s holida]
suitable ter insertion in your paper, perhaps ii
would possess more interest in the eyes o
some of your readers, if a slight sketch wen
prefixed to it of the general principles or
which the Establishment in question is con
ducted—principles, which have been fount
in this instance admirably adapted to promou
alike, the interests of the Employer and tb<
well-being of the Employed, which if mort
generally carried out, would doubtless d<
much toward the intellectual and moral ele
ration of the working classes at large. Th<
Firm of J. D. Carr Co., of Carlisle, ii
well known in every part of the civilizer
world as at the bead of a Steam Biscuiti
Manufactory; and within a smaller sphere, il
is equally well known in Baking and milling
departments. The average number of men
and boys in their employ, Is about one bun*
died—these they are anxious to see, not only
good workmen, hut also good men and citi
aens, and fee this end, no pains appear to be
spared. They give them, by every means it
their power, no see the deep interest they takt
is their welfare, by frequently meeting wit!
them both to suggest and listen to their sug
gestures of improvements in their plans, ant
by clearly showing them how completely theii
ow'd interests axe involved in the observance
of the rules adopted by their mutual consent
Amongst these rules is one. which, perhaps
more than any other, has tended to the com
forts both of employers and men none bu
those who totally abstain from the use of al
intoxicating drinks are admitted into their littli
community, and the penalty of an infringemen
of this rule is immediate dismissal. A read
ing room and library are provided for the rec
ieation of their leisure hours, and an evening
school for the more youthful them
who would otherwise be debarred by thei
circumstances from the inestimable blessing:
of education. And we must not omit here tc
remark, that during the past winter, a younj
brother of J. D'. Carr’s, has generously devo
ted several evenings every week to the in
struction of such of the men as are inclined t<
improve themselves in writing and arithmetic
and that this experiment was attended witl
the most encouraging success.
The young folks are also lured to the path
of learning, by being permitted, at certai
hours on every Sabbath, to assemble on th
premises of their kind employer, at his swee
country residence, a little distance from th<
city, where they are taught by the elder men
and frequently joined by rheir master and hii
friends, for reading or conversation. Unde
the same hospitable roof, too, soirees havi
been occasionally i: <l, and have proved in
teresting, instructive and amn&iag opportu
nities. After pat lulling of a *Mioutul provi
sion, the -men deliver addressob vpdn various
subjects connected with their ewn and their
employer’s interest, whilst total abstinence,
peace, self-improvement, and other impoitant
themes, are not overlooked. There is one
other circumstance connected with this estab
lishment which we must not omit to mention,
which is the excellent conveniences for bathing
which the workmen have always at hand, the
value and importance of which are too obvious
to need comment. It will easily be believed,
that all these provisions for their improvement
and comfort have the effect of attaching the
men warmly to their employers. Such is in
deed the case, and there is no lack on their
part of a due appreciation of the privileges
they enjoy in the strength thus afforded them
in the resistance of temptation to evil, and in
the growth of all the highei impulses of their
nature. If your readere incline to know what
substitutes are found for the men for the idle
diversions from which they are debarred, we
beg their perusal of the following sketch of
the Workmen B Holiday;
THE WORKMEN’S HOLIDAY.
The 6th of June was a day long looked
forward to by the workmen engaged in the
biscuit manufactory of the Carrs of Carlisle.
It was the time appointed by their kind em
ployers for the celebration of their annual fes
tivity, and was, as usual, to be spent in the
delightful and instructive recreation of travel
ing and visiting distant places of beauty and
interest. In previous tears they had been
to the sea coast, up the’ east and west of the
island; and one loog, bright day they had
spent amongst the lakes and mountains of
their own beautiful country —revelling in the
wild loveliness which surrounds Windermere,
the queen of the English lakes. But tins
year a still greater treat was in store: by the
magic aid of steam they were to cross the
Scottish border, set foot on Scottish ground,
ind explore the wonders and beauties of
Scotland's renowned and romantic capital.
No wonder, then, that for months past their
hearts beat high with anticipation; no wonder
if prospective visions of the first sight of that
noble city, and of the delight of having one
whole day to spend within it, came often vi
vidly before their mental eye when busily en
gaged w the duties of their every day life,
jiving a fresh and joyful stimulus to their
ndusuy, both for their own sakes and for the
take of their kind friend who was blending
heir happiness and interests with his own so
ndiasoiubly and nobly. Well, the day dawned
it last, bright and beautiful as heart could
wish. The** sun shone fair on Carlisle wail,”
m the ballad tells us it was wont to do in the
>ldeo time. But on a for other scene it looked
■hao has ever been cung in ballad or written
m the page of history, they tell us indeed of
mod* of men crossing the border sod penetra
ting to the capital city of the sister land; but
they tell us also of dashing steel, of waving
Wnners, and hearts bnmtuli of hate and ardor
Ibr revenge or conquest; and none of these
iccompanied the peaceful but joyous steps of
Mir bumble heroes, ss they inarched towards
their place of rendexvou*. And we must be
pardoned, if we here vesture to record our
Mhef, that many will r»cognise in the objects
ind sun of the huh; Uuo .4 woikaen whon*
ve have just seen assomhied under the love
beaming eye of their kind director, a truer and
leepsr poetr and a ur i.igher moral oewuty,
than the hmtted chivalry of fetmerda>s, with
ill its an called patriotism and glory. wOi he
bond to possess, whan exposed to the scorch
tog beams of the ana of Truth. But whilst
we are thus moralising 00 the happy advance
ment of the tones in which we live, we must
sot forget that oar friends are already masses
bled at the Beil way Sutioo, sweating, with
urinous ayes, the yoking to of the iron horse.
Seen that is dona, and sway rushes that carec
H* 'ouf* wt Um tmm 7b>d
i rr**
er in win 81X1 ipy|
with traditionary tales of Mi st
Mood and violence—and past the eeenes of
many a conflict in later times, between perse
eating fury and covenanting leal—and, at
length, after a ride of about four booia, they
hailed with joy the hills and spires that told
unquestionably whete the Queen of tbe North
wae reigning in her superb and time-honored
beauty. Once armed at their desired desti
nation, and haring received a warm greeting
from a little party of friends assembled at the
station to welcome them, tbe whole company,
under their escort, soon found their way
through one of the noble and imposing streets
of Edinburgh, to a spacious room which had
been provided foe their accommodation, where
a simple but excellent meal in perfect readi
ness awaited them, to which employers, men
and visitors sat down together with hearty
good will on the one side and no lack of cour
teous deference on the ether. This material
part of the business having been disposed of,
an intellectsa! treat was m store, m the form
of a short address from that tiuo friend of the
people, William Chambers, whose name, and
that of his brother, need but to be mentioned
to call up giateful feelings in every heart, for
those blessings of cheapened literature by
which they have been tbe means of so widely
extending tbe light of knowledge through the
palaces and cottages of our land. Those who
»have entered into the spirit of the writings of
these excellent men will readily believe, that
on the occasion of which we are speaking,
there was much to call forth their interest,
and that the benevolent countenance of Wik
liain Chambers glowed with animation, and 1
kindness, as he rote to addieaa a body of that'
class tbs whose moral and mental elevation'
he has labored so earnestly. His woidsrwcre’
such as might be expected to flour front a
heart like his—words of cordial welcome to
ihe strangers, and of congratulation, both to
the “employers and the employed,” on the
pleasantness of the scene be ore them. He
then ggve a hasty outline of the history of the
•city they were about to examine, since the
period when it constituted only a few huts
collected for defence around the rocky Idrtrcas
to which it owes its Origin, reminding them of
its increasing importance, till it became the
seat of royalty, ami its. ancient and lofty
houses, now the dwellings of the poorest
classes, had re-echoed to the tread of all the
nobility and beauty of Scotland's turbulent
aristocracy. The names of the ill-fated
Stuarts, and especially of her, around whose
memory misfortune has cast such an inextin
guishable halo, the beautiful Queen Mary—
that of her stern adviser, Knox, and m»y
j others, could not fail to be remembered lit
.connection with the relirs ef past greatness
to which the attention of the strangers was
directed. The modem architectural beauties
ol the city, too, were not forgotten, nor-a
tribute neglected to be paid to the unrivaled
natural position it occupies. Their kind friemk
then adverted to the charge of times since
far different reception would have been given
to a body of visitors from “over the water,’*
land to the happy termination which had long*
been put to all hostilities and rivalrus betweert*
the once hostile and jealous sister nations* of*
hug land and Scotland. He concluded by
repeating his woids of friendly welcome, and
renewing an invitation previously given tc* ml)
who inclined to pay a visit to his printing
establishment, an invitation heartily responded
to and accepted. A few words from J. D.
Carr in acknowledgement of this kindness,
i and a sentence or two of welcome frrm John
W ighain, of Edinburgh, and ihe large party
(broke up, to follow, in orderly but rheerful
tram, the guiding steps that led 10 ihe afore-
I said establishment. There was. as mjgha be
expected, interest in ihe wonderfully
rapid pr- cess which is the means of increasing
so lastly the amount ol Inerature accessible
to the working classes of the community; ard
there was a beauiy beyond that of the mere
mechanism in the busy engines which wero
throwing up from Ihcir'steaming depths such
plentiful dra ins of knowledge for the thirst
ing minds of the people. After a thorough
inspection of the various parts of this interest
ing scene, and a hearty vote of thanks from
the men, conveyed by one of their number t»
the friend who had ihus bo kindly thrown it
open to their view, the largo party prccecdcik
in detatchmeuts through ihe ancient High
Street up 1o the lofty Old Castle, which,
seated on its throne of impeli&hable rock,
seems to frown defiance to the ravages of
time, as it has hitherto done to those of war
and siege. The Castle of Edinburgh has
been so often described, that it is totally un
necessary to do so here—and as to the magni
ficent view of town and country, hill and val
ley, bay and river, tower and monument, that
lay stretched out beneath the delighted gaxe
of those who stood on its ancient battlemenis
—that is far too indescribably beautiful to be
attempted; suffice it to say, that in the warm
sunlight that was shed over it, it looked all
that its most enthusiastic admirers could wish
when pointing out to a stranger for the first
time the beauties of their “own romantic'
town. The Regalia of Scotland, which,
enclosed w ithin iron gratings in a small turret
of the Castle, lies in cold and solemn but glit
tering state, for the admiration of visitors
next engaged the atltemion of many, and"
doubtless was productive of various salutarv’
reflections on the instability of earthly great
ness and the folly of those who had wadult
through seas of blood, or shed their own, in
pursuit of the idle baubles which were lying
there before them, whose dazxling glare had
been a false beacon to the men of the olden
time, and had lured on so many to thq rocks
and whirlpools of destruction. A fter leaving
the Castle, the large party divided into smaller
ones, aud, each headed by an experienced et
cort, proceeded in various directions in search
of whatever presented to their different tastes
the deepest interest. Holyreod House the
ancieut dwelling place of royalty, and the last
regal roof that sheltered a Stuart in the land
of his fathers, was, of course, an oWect of
primary attraction to many, and they tred,
with indescribable interest, the apartments of
thw ancient edifice, which are so intimately
connected wuh the roost stirring periods of
Scottish history. The New Town,” with
its magnificent monuments, its nobly built
streets, its green and shaded gardens, and us
row s of palace-Uke dwellings, was visited with
V **ut t!**’ nobly fhe city looked,
with the bright sunshine that streamed over
it, alike in the eyes of its own inhabitants mi
m those of tbe strangers who that day gated
for the first time upon its unsurpassed beat
ties. From Arthur's Seat, the Salisbury
Crags and other elevations easily gained from
the city, these charms were surveyed; and in
the eveoing, when all met again, at the Raj|.
road station, at the time appointed for their
return, it was with glancing eyes, and with
treasures of bright recollection with which
gladden their own memories and their fireside
circles for years to come.
In conclusion, instead of apologising for so
lengthened ladetail, permit us to sskT if any
who have had the patience to peruse the for*
going sketch of a simple plan of enjoyment
E"***\ b #d of *«k»ngroe*». will dear
that those in the employment of the Cairo of
Carlisle are pcmleged alike ut being permit
ted to share in such reining and elevating
pleasures, sod m being detail'd from the de
rnorsliauig influences of the mee ground and
the ale house; aanu whether the noble experi
ment ij not worth making more generally ard
extensively then has ymlten the ease!
H. M. P.
o P* b,,d **t.—It is said that President
rolk hat fitted up the largest aud handsomest
nnusaiii Nashville for bis reception after the
°f Having purchased the roan
te*»« NaabvtUe in to be his permanent resi
™*Cp*!
A sighs - the Washington Correspondent of the Chicago Tribune, a journal which is opposed to Gen. Cass says: Mr. “Holmes of South Carolina, yesterday made a speech in favor of Gen. Taylor. The South Carolina members, nearly if not all, repudiate Cass. Taylor is their choice. Under his administration, they think that the peculiar institution will be more secure. 
The insurrection in Paris
To the exclusion of several communications
and other matters of considerable interestwe give our reader* a condensed accm...
oi she recent tragical event* in Pari*. Tin
in tropols* of France ba* been the see e o
horrors which it was hoped would never agau
be enacted ia the civilised world. Say* th<
London Time*, The massacre of St. Bar
tholomew in 1572, the commotions w hich tool
place during the revolutionary period, from
l7dt to 17U5 —the ten day* of 1830—have
all been surpassed by the present insurrection
in horrible brutality and carnage.”
That the insurgents wete under the direc
tion of some head j»os®ocd of power r ‘d in
telligence, doea not admit of a doubt. Some
mention the name of Henry 1., some tlie
adherents of Louis Philippe, some hint at
England—this, of coutue, utterly without
foundation.
Says the Tribune It scarcely ventur
ing too far, to suppose that the agency of
Russia may have partly aided to sustain them.
That Jesuit of the nation* has had her f-harc
in the bloodshed of Prague she now threat
ens Prussia; and hopes, by placing herself
at the head of' tbs Sclavonic movement, to
become the controlling power of Europe.—
The unaccountable abundance of Russian
gold in Paris just before the revolt, may be
explained on this supposition. But the worst
foes of France dwell within her own borders,
and if she should fall it will by Jier ow n
children’s hands.”
Money and want, appear to have been the
moving springs of action. Many of the
prisoners, when captured, had considerable
sums of money on their persons, and several,
when asked why they fought, replied, lo
earn the money that has been g.vcn us.
Others replied, Better die from a musket
ball than from hunger.”
Some of the English press, says the Bos
ton Bee, look upon this insurrection as a com
plete overthrow of the Monarchical and ultra
democratic parties of the State. Perhaj*s it
is so. But until it is known t cho in the Na
tional Assembly favored this outbreak, and
ujKin what individuals in the government re
liance can be placed, it is unwise to pronounce
a decided opinion.
The Beginning.—Pursuant to the dcier
mination to diminish the number of our nets,
fthe Government directed that a dtaught ol
I3(XW of them, inhabitants of the provinces,
should leave town on the 22d. They were
••applied with money, and orders for board
iug and lodging. They left town, but halted
outside the barriers, and there spent a large
.share of their expenses. About 3 o’clock, a
body, amounting to 400, returned, and paid a
-visit to the Executive Government. M. Marie
resell ted himself to hear their grievances.—
le was addressed by the chief, but M. Marie
refused to hear him, as he had been amongst
those w ho attacked the Assembly on the 1 otic.
May, and he could not recognise him then
turning to the others, he said, You arc not
the slaves of this mail, you can explain your
grievances.” Marie entreated them not to
he led into rebellion, and assured them that
*tie Government was occupied with t lie con
sider!!.on of measures for the improvement of
thsir condition. The delegates withdrew,
but d d i.ot give an accurate account of their
tele ft t w. (In thfc contrary, they stated that
M. Marie called them slaves. The laborers
then comm meed shouting, Dow n with the
Executive Commission 1”—“ Down with the
Assembly Some of them attempted to
force into the Church of St. Sulpiee, with
the latent of ringing the toscin, hut the gate
was closed to prevent them. Thence they
proceeded to the quays, sinking We will
femain; wc will remain They next pro
ceeded to the Faubourgs St. Antoine and
tit. Marceau; and stationed themselves on
ihe Place de la Bastile, crying, Vive Na
poleon 1”
Preparations of the Insurgents.—An
eye-witness, who strongly condemns the ap
parent apathy of the bourgeoise in the outset
6f the insurrection, gives a narrative of his
own observation on the morning of the 23d.
After stating that the Porte St. Denis was the
focus of all the disorder, he says that on ap
proaching that neighborhood he was surprised
not to see a single soldier, or National Guard,
but, on the other hand, several thousands of
the conspirators in possession of the whole of
ihe district, and already entrenched in bat Ti
rades of the most formidable description.—
Across the boulevards was an immense bar
ticade, formed of four or five omnibuses, sev
eral carriages, a huge wagon, and paving
stones taken from the streets, torn up for a
Considerable distance on both sides.
A little beyond the Hue St. Denis was an
other, fully as formidable, and composed of
miscellaneous materials; and still further on
toward the Porte St, Martin wa* a third, not
so large as the first, hut still sufficient to be a
powerful defence, The end of the Rue du
Faubourg St, Deni* was also closed up with a
hug barricade, which prevented the approach
of troops from the outskirts. The Rue St,
Denis, the Rue Villeneuvc Bourbon, the Rue
de Clery, and the other streets abuting on the
spot in possession of the insurgents were
similarly defended, and thousands of gamins
were industriously working with pikes aud
spades, tearing up the streets and adding to
the defences.
The mere enumeration of these extensive
woiks, shows how much tune must have been
•pent in their erection, and it is wonderful to
think the authorities, who had been fonvarned
of what was doing, and who show so much
alacrity in calling out the troop® when there is
no occasion for them, should have allowed
them to be completed without interruption,
The barricades were defended by tome
hundreds of people in blouses, of whom many
were not armed, or at least did riot show ifieir
arms. They had a great number of tri-colored
flag* stuck upon the lop of the barricades,
with the words ateliers nationauj" inscribed
upon them. The Porte St. Denis, which
was in the hand* of the conspirators, was de
corated with the black flag, and on the lop of
it were arranged heaps of* paving stone*, ap
parently for the purpose of being hulled upon
the heads of those who might attack it.
oil l:k8T On U»® morning of
the 23d, about 4 o’clock, about 5,000 men
•reeled barricades at the Ports St. Dennis and
Martin. Many of them were armed with
muskets. At about ton they attacked a post
of National Guards, u d attempted to disarm
fired, aod the Guard returned the fire. The
Cople fled. At about 3 o’clock, the rappel
b u- e f >l* N.u.h.,1
newly one-Uurd mt A dctachlm
of Ihe worn! I«p.m n,, re |urn
nade. »»d aWn, u,, who girded
ri» *“*er a d.^hwe,
of nwkelr,. .to ihe X«, (Kul (Ju
fired; but .Iter a few round* they were over
powered arm q vmuud.and Uie workmen from
the windows nf the surrounding houses fired
upon them. Three or four were killed and I
several wounded. At a later hour the t
(tonal Guard* came up in force, and opened a
murderous fire on the barricades. Tb® m* ur
genu made a® obeUoale resistance, but *t
length abandoned the barneade* and fled.—
Several National Guards were killed a Lt.
Colonel and a Chief d’Eacadron were wound
ed. From SO to 40 of the people were
killed t® the attack. General de Latnorictere
fommanded the troop®. The cry of th«
tmeutters w$$ t Viv* U Kepubhque Demo
ff jit i'jvte.
Dcsteration c t the Pore lace.—A* a
proof of the forbearance ef the troops,and tin
desperate reckle*foca® of th® populace, wc
i give a brief dearoptton of an attack made by
a j a rge bauailhm of the National Guards on a
barricade in the Porte Bt. Denis:
On the appearance of thia battalion the in
surgenta, taking it for a regiment of the lute,
and hoping to shake the fidelity tif the regular
troop®, raised a about of Vive te Ltgrn
but on finding their mtstske mmt of them
1 fled. There remained only seven men and
two women, who fought desperately. One
of the men, who held a flag in km hand, was
j ti,® first to fife; hi* companion* followed hts
example, and the National Guards returned
the fire. The man who carried the flag fell
j dead. One of the females, a young w oman,
neatly dressed, picked up the flag, and
leaping over the barricade, rushed toward
the National Guard*, uttering language ot
provocation.
Although the fire continued from the barri
cade, the National Guards, fearing to injure
this female, humanely abstained for some time
from returning it, and exhorted bei to with
draw. Their exhortations, however, were
vain, and at length self-preservation compelled
them to fire, aod she was killed. The other
female then advanced, took the flag, and be
gan to throw atones at the National Guards.
The fire from the barricade bad become fee
ble, but several shots wore fired from the
sides and fW»m the windows of Imuaes, and
the National Guards, in returning the fire,
killed the second female.
At last or.lv one man regained at the barri
cade, but he kcpt'tfp d constant discharge.—
One of* the National Guards left tire ranks,
sword in hand, and rushing to the liarricade,
turned aside the musket of this man just as he
w as about to fire again, and took him prisoner.
The capture of tins barricade did not put an
end to the combat. A galling fire was poured
upon the National Guards from the window®
of the houses of which they had taken forcible
[>ossossion. The number of killed on this
point is estimated at about twenty on both
>idcs. The number of wounded was also
considerable.
Lamartine, Aeago, and others. —During
the day’s combating, the roemliers of the Ex
ecutive Committee exposed themselves boldly.
At many barricade.- Arago presented himself,
and reasoned, or attempted to reason,with the
people. His friends frequently feared that he
I would be killed, but the rabble seemed to re
spect his courage—courage, we may remark,
of the very noblest character, as he exposed
his own life in the hope of preventing blood
shed. In some instances he was loudly
1 cheered.
During the greater part of the day Lamar
tine accompanied (Jen. Cavaignac to the
scenes of contest, the General having been
slightly wounded. Pierre Bonaparte had his
j horse wounded by the side of Lamartine. M.
Bixio, who in the National Assembly pro
i posed that the members should take part w ith
the National Guard, was shot, it is feared
mortally. Clement Thomas was wounded i;i
the thigh. Domes, a Representative, and
one of the Editors of the National, was also
wounded.
The Fighting on Friday.—ln the course
of the morning 0110 men of the Garde Mobile
were disarmed by a body of the insurgents,
headed by an individual in the uniform of an
officer of the National Guaid. At 6 o’clock
ilie fighting continued, and the number of
troops had been increased. Fifteen National
Guards were killed at the Porte St. Denis.—
By a fatal mistake, two legions of the National
Guards fired on each other. The erics among
the populace were various—“ Vive Ilenri
V. ive Napoleon!” Vive la ltepub
lique!” were severally heard. A member of
the Assembly raised a flag at the Porte St.
Denis, bearing the inscription, Du pain, on
la mort.” (Bread or death.) M. Caussi
diere at this hour joined the mom here of the
Executive Guvtrmiient *a Itursebaci.amdttew
passed along the Boulevaids. The insurgents
occupied a house in the Faubourg St. Denis,
from which they fired on the troops. Two
hundred prisoners were taken by the National
Guard on the Place de la Sorhonne.
At nine o'clock, the struggle in the quarter
of St. Jacques was most terrible. The in
surgents, strongly barricaded, fired warmly on
the National Guard and troops of the line,
who replied. Cannon were at work. The
Staff wore at the Hotel de Yille. The artil
lery was on the Pont Notre Dame. The can
non fired from this point on the Rue de la
'Cite, and the bottom ol' the Rue St. J .cquez,
appeared to engage them very much. Strong
barricades existed in the Rue de la llarpe.—
Much blood was shed, and Gen. Francois waa
wounded. In the course of the evening the
insurgents captured a post of Garde Mobile,
aud made them march with them. All round
the temple the town was in postession of the
insurgents, who were defending themselves
1 with intense energy. The platoon discharges
replied to them every 5 minutes.
it w as estimated that not less than 150,000
i of the oufriers and the dregs of the popula
tion of Paris and the Banlieu, were gathered
together in the deperatc attempt to make an
other revolution, and recover the mastery.
Such was the nature of the work on
Thursday and Friday, It is fearful to con
template the bloody scenes of these tw o days,
and of Saturday, Sunday, and the morning of
Monday. What was enacted in those two
days, was repeated, with more or less accom
paniments of horror, to the end of the con
flict;
The insurgents shouted, “Down with the
National Assembly—with Lamartine—with
Jjcdru Kullin—with Marie! Ling live the
Republic democratic and social! These
were the chief cries, but othets exclaimed,
Vive Napoleon and that pretty numer
ously. Others again, but few and faint,
Vive Henri Cinq but these were mere
party cries.
The Parisian mob—which is far too com
monly confounded with the French pc/yple
poured forth (earful cues of “bread or death!”
Then was shouted, Death to Jjamartine!
and to the other leaders once so popnlar, In
fact, the names of the parties tfius denounced
could only be distinguished by their being as.
familiar a* household words, borne, however,
could not be distinguished, and the most fear
ful ciy of all was, Death to Death
to the name being lost in the roar
of the crowd or the noise of the musketry.
A Correspondent of the London Times thus
describes the principal scene of struggle
When those who have been at Waterloo
learn that for more than a mde the wall of
ihe city of Part® was as profusely furnished
with loophole® a® was the garden wall ot
Houpuemont, they will easily miagu.e how
foimidabte was the obstacle it presented.
When they shall bear in mind that the bam-1
cades in advance (the hue* of the Barrieres
Poivsomere, Ruchechouart and i't. Dents are
ajHiken of) were composed of pav mg stone ol
a hundred weight each, or of the cot etonesofi
a hospital in process of erection, and that they!
were protected by bouses adjoining to or com
manding them, sod that, as occasion presented
itself throughout Saturday and Sunday, a;
constant, unerring and deadly fire was'kept
up on the ascatfonia by an almost invisible;
garrison, they will not be surprised at the pro-t
longed resistance, nor at the immense h«® ofi
life among the troops and National Guards
that unfortunately occurred.
What will to the astonishment of all the
world, and the feeling of all military men in!
particular, when they are told that the whole j
of these works ways defended by between do 1
aid 150 ruth*** The largest number stated
ws® 400. How many of the insurgents were
killed oo Sunday at the Barrier® Rorhe
chouart, think you, while the foes of the armed
force waa mot® than 1,0001 Two —ooe o<
them shot through tbs brain white firing i
through a loophole hot six inches to diameter,
rive were wounded. They ran from fonp
hote to loophole with the agility of monkeys
I hey only left the eurff of the Wgb waif to
f seek ammunition, which they had ouly
scanty and precarious supply. was shown
the marks of the cructute under the wall in
w hich they melted lead for bullet® during the
fight. They even attempted to ihbticate gtm
power.
Th* Times also state* the following very
significant feet:
It appeals certain that Count de Narhotme,
form**! ly sid-de-camp of Charles X., aod hi®
servant, who were arrested bchtndNflie bam
cade m the act of distributing money to the
rev ultfirs, had both been shot in the garden* of
the Luxemburg by the National Guards.—i
Forty-eight other prisoner* were said to hi.Te*
been put to death 00 the Place de Gteve.
During the storming of the barricades on
Saturday, M. Psyer, Representative fn»m
Ardennes, was eonfiued to hi* horse in a quar
ter io j,oMes!»ioa of the insurgent* fiir twelve,
I hoars. After his release, be came to the As-1
setubly, and stated that a great number of the
insurgents were unfortunate men w ho had been.
led astray, and several had money tn th.;ir
pockets, and excited the other* to fiaht by *ll
kinds of evil reports. Many of them were
poor workmen, driven to despair by that mis
ery which they had endured for four mouths,
and who replied to tht«e who asked them
what they were fighting for, It is better toj
be killed with a bullet than to staive to
death!” None of them, when drink was
presented to them, would accept wine with
out water; and one of them, having killed a
Mobile, who had wnunoed his hand, began to
cry hkf a child. Some of ihe leader* were
constantly endeavoring to excite them by dis
tributing to them strong liquors, and repeating
to them the most odious stories. At one time
they said the 11th Legion had massacred a
great number of them; at another, that 600
woikinen iiad been sent from the Ateliers Aa-i
iionuux to go and work at Footainbleau, and
that they had been received on their arrival'
by the Maire, who told them they wo.ild not;
employ such canaille. M. Payer remarked'
that the leaders never exposed themselves, and I
disappeared at the least danger.
Closing Battle.—-The latest collision be
tween the military and the insurgents took)
place at Belleville, and was thus described bv
General Lcbreton, who commanded, to his,
colleagues of the National Assembly, where 1
he arrived just after the termination of the 1
evening’s sitting oa Tuesday. It is reported
in the CorrslrtutioTlnel of Wednesday, and he!
says he heard the General make the recital j
“A last barricade,” said the General, re-1
mained at Belleville. I caused it to he r.;con- i
noitred by the National Guard of the place, t
and by the National Guard of Rouen and that 1
of Amiens. 1 then sent for the Mayor. 1
asked him if he could not find some one to!
open a communication with the insurgents.—
Tiie mayor replied in the affirmative, and 1
shortly afterwards he brought to me a citizen,
who went to the barricade, and returned with,
four of the combatants. They approached!
and saluted me. Addressing myself to one I
of them. Tasked what they desired. lie re-1
plied, General, we wish they shouldguaran-1
lee to us our rights." 1 do not understand
such language,’ replied the General, ‘and you
deserve that I should order you to be shot on
the spot, but you are here ou my word, and I
shall do nothing of the sort. Return, a.id :f
in a quarter of an hour you have not lain
down vour arms, 1 will Lave yon all shot.’ ”j
The General gave orders for the occupation
of all the houses the window set' which looked
into the barricade. The assailants were im-j
patient to finish the matter, and at the end of
five minutes they commenced a murderous
fire, which the besieged returned; but a few
moments afterwards they surrendered, fiuding
that all resistance was usAess, and that morel
than a fifth of their number had been cither
killed or wounded. The others, .to the nu.ii-!
her of eighty, were taken prisoneis uudoritfiej
protection of ihe General, who had lira great
est difficulty*in sarinfi them Trom the ven-'
gerjnee of his troops.
The Killed and Wounded.— Various
are ihe computations, ranging from 10,000 to
16,000, as to those who have fallen; the nurn-,
h *r of wounded it is not even attempted to es
timate. The massacre of St. Bartholomew,
it is said, was less destructive as regards the;
sacrifice of life, and even, some say, the bat
tle of Waterloo. Among the more remarka
ble persons killed are the Archbishop of Paris'
and General Brea, the Commandant of the j
Garrison of Nantes, who was shot under the!
moxt lamentable circumstances. One of the!
insurgents having been captured by some of}
the Garde Mobile, these men, infuriated at
their inhuman conduct, determined to shoot
him, when, at the moment of execution,
General Brea thew himself before the prison
er, and entreated them i>y all the laws of war
ns well as humanity to spare lorn, and leave
him to the hands of justice. This noble Ap
peal had scarcely passed his lips, when the
1 uffianly captive,who stood behind him, pulled
out a pistol" and shot the general dead. The
murderer was immediately put to death amidst!
yells of fury. Col. Charbouuel was wounded, 1
and died in forty-eight hours. General Re
nault w as also wounded, but it is hoped that j
he will recover. Gen. Negtier, one of the!
queslors of the National Assembly, has lost
his life. He headed the foree which on Sun
day evening drove the insurgents ftonu the!
corn stores of the barrack of the Ceiestins,
where they had taken refuge; then returning
by the Boulevard Boudan, he sent Command-'
ant Boizard of the National Guard to order
reinfoicements, in order to rescue the upper
part of the Hue St. Antoine from the insifr
gents, who were still in the neighborhood of
the church of St. Paul, when he was struck
by a ball, at the entrance of the Rue St. 1
Antoine, in front of the great barricade which'
defended the entrance of the faubourg.
Laroque, the editor of the Pm- Duchcsnr
and chairman of a furiously revolutionary
club. La Montagne, was shot at the Barrier'e’
Rochechouart. He was hooked one
of the chief instigators of the insurrection,!
and fought day aud night unflinchingly. His
body was carried to the maire of the 2d ar-
He was cl ;thed in a blouse
and the strong shoes of a laborer. This was;
a concession to lift Communist companions, I
hut underneath he was found to wear a fine
cambric shirt and silk stockings. M. Depo
deuc. s young painter of great promts®, waM
killed. Gen. Duvivier was wounded, apd u
colonel w ho succeeded him in the command ol
the district of the Hotel de Virte,' was
was killed. Three or four of the representa
tives are missing, and it is believed-killed.—
Gen. Demesne is wounded, it is feared mor
tally. M. Benjamin Larsuhe, the transistor
of Scilt and Byron, was killed at the barri
cade of Rocheebuuart. Lieat. Col. Mitchell,
tif th® artillery of the Nation*] Guard, is
badly wounded. It is said fhat more superior
officer® have been killed ot wounded than in
any one of Napoleon's great actions.
Prisoners and Prison®.—The correspond
ent of the Post, writing on Sunday evening,
says: t* The number ot prisoner® already
captuied is enormous. Fifteen hundred ot
them have bean ihru»t into the cellars of the
Palais Royal, where they remain wAbout
bread, w ater, and ia some cases w about rai
ment. There are also WOO in the cellars m
tbe passage under the terrace to the TuUlenet
Gardens, through which Loats Phihppesue
ceedcd in effecting hi® escape. The stack j
Hcfie at Csteutts would have been what the
late Gauge Robin* called t most desirable
dwelling’” in comjsanaon w ith those dark and
loathsome cellars; th* bcmble soeo«® which
hare been enacted there are tow dreadful to tie
detailed.
Decant or TsAt^rosTATiow. Tb« Pie- 1
at dent had proposed U> the Assembly a project
of law uruooenciag transport*tie* 09 per
son* taken with arms ia their hand®, which
bad been adopted. The proposal passed
unanimously. Th* ftawliea of tbe exarrieu
will he allowed to ge with tbda.
It te Mated that Geo. Caraigeae b®e warn
mooed to hi® ooeeette PL Thiers, ®ed the*«w
government wtU yuhibly be placed mitt tu®*
diiectioa.
Th* Wfewtef deerse had base pohiished by
the Chief de PourntT JJxemtifi t 44 Every pet
®oo working at the hlfcicades shall be consid
ered a* taken wah anakm hia hands. *’«—Pans
June 85.
ArrzAßa.Nct or rtnt Cmr.—ln theQtarter
St. Aatvine, runro than 60 boose* are entirely
destroyed by the artillery, sad much huger
number have suffered wonsidcxahly. Ob the
Place de te Bastille the disasters are not kae.
Tho column of July ba* been injured. The
watehoese known as ”La Belle Fannin”
is eompktely destroyed.
like Faubourg St. Antoine presest® a aril!
more siaeier aspect. There is nut a hoo®e
which has not suiT-red more or tere by the
canmmadc. Tho iahamtarts of this unhappy
faulourg appear in eonsternation. Tb® great
er number submit with eagerness to tbe
search of arms which the m*nrgeots hare
abandoned. Cries of vengeance are very rare,
and those of misery pttvaii.
From the Place ds te Bastille, along the
Boulevards, to the Porte St. Denis, the
disasters are most horrible. Th* window sof
the greater pert of tbe houses arc smashed to
pieces.
Advi«*®, dated from Paris on Wednesday,
state that the appearance of Pam was suit
very melancholy. Flwa the *a»t number of
casualties in the course of the four day®
during which the insurrection lasted, almost
every one has lost father, husband, brothers,
or friends. Ia every, street women appeared
in deep mourning, with.all the signs of deep
affliction. Vast numbers of the National
Guards’were missing, aiid the doubt as to their
fate is almost m« ra painfui thau-the certainty
oT the w6fst. Id church fhneral serv
ices were going on from mdtwing till night,
and the same sorrowful eymptc maof the evils
of civil war must necessarily continue unaba
ted for several days. The number of the
dead and wmmdt dW be still seen carried
along the different streets was extraordinary.
All the women,from the highest to the lowest,
were busy preparing lint for the hospitals.
A correspondent of the Boston Chronotype
says.
I have seen Paris in a more desperate crisis
than perhaps it ever passed through before.
The times of Robespierre were prolific n|
horrors, but I doubt whether they ever pro
duced anything as honible as the last week
has done. Then in one day hundreds were
shin by the guillotine, now in four days,
Friday and Saturday of last week and Sun
day and Monday of tins, thousands have
fallen then it ttas political fanaticism that
sent men to death, now it has been the fanat
icism of the pocket.”
Well, now it is over,md Gan.Cavaignac is
the hero of the day. He has certainly acted
like a skilful general aftd a man of heart. 1
seu in Paris,” he says in hh proclamlion
announcing the victory, the vanquishers and
the vanquished; accursed lie my name if
I consent to see aay victims.” In the Cham
ber the other day urging the n3cessity of a
humane disposition of the prisoner;—of whom
there nr n-.t less than 8000—he said: Let
us ru t f i that we arc making history,
and 1! at suab a time can never be ef
faced. H will rule for a time at least, and
it is pruno-vd that the Assembly shall appoint
him President of the Republic for 10 months
to co ne. Possibly this may be done but that
will not confirm him in power. The intrigues
of the nionarclii,dists who are laboring to
bring in Thiers, and who propagate the most
abominable calumnies against ail prominent
men, tiie machinations of other fictions, the
restlessness of the whole public mind and
this yet unsettled labor question, all make it
doubtful. He is however a republicmi and a
man of energy, and possibly may prove able
to hold his position.
Lamartine's day has gone by. Hois now
hardly spoken of and has no influence.”
G.'n. Cavaignac was entrusted with sup
reme power oq Friday: On Wednesday he
snrrended it/whereupon fhe Assembly passeT
him a vote of thanks by accla nation. The
Ministers then tendered their resignations,
which were accepted; and a decree was
passed confiding to General Cavaignac the
Executive power, with the title of President,
of the Council, and with power to appoint
his own Ministers. It was arranged that the 1
funeral of the victims should lake place on
Friday.
The Nkw French Ministry.—The fol
lowing Ministry have been appointed:
General Cavaignac President.
Bethmont Justice.
Gen. Bedeau Foreign Affairs. i
Senard Horne Deportment. 1
Gen. Lamoriciore War.
Bastide r Marine.
Goudchaux j. Finance.
Recurt Public Works.
Toures Commerce.
The Democratic Pai.ijijuf was in favor of
Cavaignac for President of the Republic.
M. Marie, late member of the Executive;
Government, is appointed President of the
Assembly, in the of Senard, the num
bers being for M. Marie 414 votes, and for M.
Dufaure 297 votes.
Political items.
Van Bures Oveuboard.—The Conven-f
tioa, at Turkman, to nominate delegates to!
the Buffalo Convention, passed the following
resolution: •_
Resolved, That wp recommend to the com-!
ing People's Convention, to be held at Buffi- j
10, the names of Messrs, Hale and Gid-imgs
as the standard bearers of Universal Freedom, j
and that nothing but a lack of numbers shall
prevent their election if nominated.
llon. llenry Dodge declines the nomina
tion for the Vice Presidency, by the Barn
burner Democrats, and ayuws his intention ot
supporting the Baltimore nominations.
The Union about to jie Shivered. —The j
Batavia Times, has the following:
Who does rjot believe that any legislation;
of Congress upon the subject of Slarveiy in
the States or territories, wfeelher to allow or f
prohibit Slavery in ihe L»tteT» viß in;
the dismeioliermeot of (he LovNi! Would}
tbe north couseat or subowt, to an act of Coo-1
gress, creating and aSlavery lfi newly i
acquired territory*" W never. Oa
the other hand, will the south submit to an
act of Congress, prohibiting slavery in the
States or ternloratf*. W® again, newr. i
Voting on looked into
the Court Room a few moments vesferda)
aiiernooo. 'i lie Court was not in session
The Bar was full of Lavjfer*, the room was
tilled w it i 1. parties, w itoosses aod spec
tators. A.; dto feel well. There was.
lots of f- s were made for speeches, j
At last it v.us x r.ip«»ad to f *ke votes on the j
Presiftenrv. it wife done, the result was as
follows. Taylor 13, Cm® 13: Boilers out num
bered both. For Governor Gen. Ford bad
very large majority over W eller. So it will
go through the State, and through the
North and F.ast, ot we are mistaken. Taylor
and Cats* are no go. Ford goes U strong.'
Tbece is fa* ahead after the 9th of August.
There’s a good time a corein* boys.”—Cs*. j
Herald.
Tbe New Yorb HenU *f the
Buffalo Convention: Tte* movement is
calculated utterly to demote* the ptmpaeu ot j
Gen. Cm* arej th® Hanker branch of the
Deroberari* parly, whetlwr Ait. \on Buren f
nr Mr. Hale, or some other man, be the 00m
iuoe.”
Tag Rebellion s»«ai»!~Th* Detao
ersric Union, WatreteWW. Jefferson county,
ihe Fuhon Onotv Dereoerte, at Johrertowm,
lb® Palmyra Courier, Wayar Cremre; ®od
the Fosters Sole Jwnd, Wbm Vthte®.
WrrtrhrateT Crernty,* in the- Btete New;
Fork, which had re* s® U®» flag, ka*c
bauled it d#wn again and (teetetod UK VM
Boren and F*m
PabrAS*.—Grftrj* B- Richardson, a
ratification meeting at Baltimore, said of G®%.
Taylor, white.he *u a fete and a tiger Is
tool®, he wpe a tomb when fife vktarv ws»
woq, end was dtertfetef bw p erere j
bee almost efus! to <Ui hmfclf
hmm!>e —b Hm *xuiT#ytev w4»jjr
CoHY-emina, rewduliocs entpphnvfrtfng Ku<»
V« Bqn», Irftt P. Halt and Jo*Hu* R
GiAhof*. adopt*!! There's a bwnti
foltno! Mania Van Boren, whom lha whig*
haea ao often dc&oiared as a northern aian 1
■vilh southern principles, Ibe supporter and
Mccm>r of tbe man they have ao often do
noni eed as a iufetary chieftain, John P. flak*.
the abolition eawdate for tbe Presidency, and
GwMiagva rentiftg fanatic! Mr. Vaa Bo tea'*
bitter persona! i abutments and grudge* haw
procured him some delightful aaeoriatea.— j
Another step »ill throw him into the open j
anna of Garrison, Abbey Kelley fcCo. Ex.
Go. Tatloi.— In one of Gen. Taylor's
letters, we find the following paragraph:
I cannot object to the designation of these
bodies, as Whigs, Democrats, or Native®;
bat in bstng thus nominated, I must insist up
on tbe condition —and my position on this
point \%inTnut<tblc —that 1 shall not be brought
forward by tbe*u as tbe ca didate of tbsir
party, or considered as tbe exponent of their
party doctrines.’*
Counting Votes. —Th« Herkimer Free
man of little Falls, N. Y., aayn, two gentle
men of that County, a Whig and Democrat,
gouty from Fairfield to Newport, agreed to
ask tliev met on tbe way, whetlier
he was for Cass or Taylor. On arriving at
Newport the votes stood For Cass, none.
Taylor, do
Address of Anti-Slavery Woolen of West
ern New York,
Under a deep arid a biff ng^mprraof the
duty we owe to God and o'er fellow beings,
.the Anti-Slavery women of Rochester feel
constrained to continue to persevere in their
efforts for the oppressed and suffering bond
men who still remain toiling unrequited in the
Southern prison house. We a*e frequently
brought painfully to remember that no*, only
is their labor wrested from them unr*munera
ted not only do thoy suffer from intense hun
ger and cold not only are the females, ora
sisters, subjected to the cruol aad passionate
outrages of their tyrannical masters and over
seers ..t there are daily instances of sun
dering the dearest ties in nature, thus sepa
rating them forever. And can we exjiect any
thing better—can we look for benevolence or
fins feelings from a system so foul and fiend
ish as slavery It would be unreasanabje,
because a corrupt tree cannot bring forth
good fruit.*’ Therefore, knowing that with
out associative action we cannot render effi
cient aid to this holy cause, we affectionately
invite the co-operation of the citizens of Roch
ester and the public generally. We ask them
to bear in mind the injunctions of Jesus, “All
things whatsoever ye would men should do to
you, do ye even so to them.” Remember,
also, the beautiful parable in which he calls
our attention to the sick and to those who are
in prison, and concludes by the forcible asser- i
tion, “Inasmuch as ye have done it tooneufthe
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it J
unto me.” We feel assured all that have
hearts to feel, and arc careful to attend to the
monitions of conscience—all who are deter
mined to live for the good of our race, instead
of devoting all their time to their own per
sonal case—all w ho feel bound to improve the
precious time allotted to them here, by pro
moting as much as jiossihlo the cause of truth
and righteousness in the earth, will come for
ward in the work of laboring to banish forever
the diinon of slavery from our land and in j
so doing, instead of an example of corruption
and wickedness, we should be a light to the
world.”
We hope no o*lo will feel too poor, nor any
too rich, to enlist in this holy cause. The
Christian's influence, in whatever situation, is
always salutary, and will certainly produce its
good effects. We ask for the aid of men and
of wumen;—-we call on the old and the I
young, the firmer,, the jnechaaic, and the
merchant. "We ask all and every one to give
us their help to devote what they can spare,
cither of money or of the fruits of tneir la
bor, to the work of restoring men and women
to themselves, to their manhood, to the rights
and blessings with which they were endowed
by our Creator.
For this object, vre propose holding a Fair
in December next. We ask the females in
the adjoining towns and country around us, to
get up sewing circles, and prepare such arti- 1
cles as will be most saleable, and to come, fur- 1
nish tables, give us their company, and help j
us, not only in selling those tilings thus pre
pared, but in convincing the public mind of
the necessity of our perseverauoo ami fidelity,
and thus be helpers in hastening the day of!
emancipation. An appeal is made to ike friends of
Liberty to unite with those who have
I recently detached themselves* from the
two political parties with which they
have hitherto acted, in elevating to the
Presidency some citizen who has gooe
no farther in the great work of Anti-
Slavery Reform than to avow his reso
lution to oppose the farther Extension
j f Slavery, and this appeal, we regret
to say, is endorsed by a few individuals
in the Liberty party who n-ed streuu
ous cH'otts to bring about the nomina
j tion of Messrs. Hale and King. Permit
us, therefore, in this exigency, to en
treat you to be steadfast snd unmovable,
to adhere to the wise policy you have
already marked out, and the rnaiute
-1 nance of which has made you so influ
ential. Even many of those w ho ccn
pured you, at the last Presidential elec,
tion, for voting for a third candidate,
I under t!ie pretence that the nominee ol
either the Whig or Democratic party
j would certainly be elected, and therc
i fore vour votes would be thrown away,
now commend your adlicrencc to prin
cipal, by saying, “Because others do
wrong, it is no reason for us to antici
pate their crime.” They also imitate
your past policy, forsake their old
organizations, and form a distinct politi
cal party. Thus they hear testimony
'to the wisdom of your former coarse
J while they solicit you to unite with them
that your votes may swell the number
that will he cast for the V\ ilmot-Provi
so candidate. But while we approve
their rising spirit ol independence, let
r us not listen to these solicitations, let
them proceed from whatever quarter
they may. If you relinquish the high
i position you have attained by so much
toil and sacrifice, you will jeopard the
cause. Nav, if to accommodate those
who profess to aim only at the non-ex
tension of slavery, you postpone the
j great work of emancipation, and substi
j tute a new issue for the glorious one al
ready made, and which has been so
successfully maintained, you will injure
those who now seek your alliance. You
have associated, to use the sentiments
of the Address of the Southern and
Western Convention of 1845, not as
partisans, but for the purpose of sub
serving Truth and Right; to oppose
not merely the Extension of slavery,
hut to bring about, by all lawful and
righteous acts, its complete overthrow,
j Your association is founded upon the
I great cardinal principle of true Demo
cracy and of true Christianity, the
i Brotherhod of the Human Family; you
have resolved on waging war against
j slavcholding as the direst form of op
pression, and then against every other
species of tyranny and injustice; you
are aiming to carry out the principle of
Liberty in all its consequences, out as a
more Abolition party, but as a party
that aims at the extinction of slavery
because slaveholding is inconsistent
j with Christian and Republican princi
pies—aiming at it not as an ultimate
end, but as an illustrious era in the ad
j vancemcnt of Society to be wrought out
by its action and instrumentality.
By asserting and maintaining these
high and uncompromising principles
you have, with God's blessing, niatfe a
deep impression upon your countrymen,
commanded the respect of Mankind,
and induced large numbers of the con
siderate and patriotic adherents to the
other political parties to pause, resolve
j on new associates, and take the first
stop in withstanding the encroachment
i of the slave-Power. Be it your privi-
to go Toward in the great work of
I political regeneration, to aim at a still
higher standard, and to lead foward the
Allies of freedom until Liberty shall he
proclaimed throughout the land to all
the inhabitants thereof. Do not, we
beseech you, retreat under the pretence
that you can thus urge on more effect
ually those who have just commenced
the march of Liberty. This is not the
way to influence men nor to preserve
your own integrity. Sound philosophy
and political experience show that those
worthy to conquer must lead, and that
they who are feeling the first aspirations
of freedom w ill follow ihose w ho bear
the loftiest standard.
1 s it said, this is a “crisis”—“a
special case”—“unite this once,” and
the Liberty Party hereafter can act as
efficiently as before? This is the stereo
typed declaration on the eve every
Presidential Election. You have, with
but few exceptions, refused to listen to it
heretofoie. Refuse compliance with it
now. At every election, temptations
will be presented to postpone action on
the great objects of your association, to
carry some collateral issue, and thus
friends or foes essay to make you in
strumental in achieving iuferiorgood at
the expense of fundamental principles.
Y’ou ought not to enter into comprom
ises, baiters, or substitutions. Profit
bv experience. Never ri?k the success
of the-cause by making an issue on a
minor point. Adherence to principle
has been your tower of strength. In
stead of lowering your standard you
have elevated it. Thus you have in
fused coinage into your ranks, and
gained the respect of other parties. Is
it said by uniting with the disaffected of
the other political parties, you may in
spire them with your sentiments, and
induce them, if successful now with your
aid, to take hold of the work of emanci
pation? Numerically y ou are the small
est portion, ..nd would he in danger of
losing your indontity as well as vour in
fluence, It is only in moral principle
that you are now superior to others.
Besides, w«at w ill he your position if
the party with which you are invited to
merge yourselves should be unsuccess
ful? Like that of Samson in the prison
house.
Y\ a can K t believe that any voter
cutitled to the appellation of a friend to
Liberty—we wish wi* could sav t we do
not believe that any professing Chris
tian—will, under any consideration,
vote for a belligerent demagogue aod
aristocrat, or be carried away by popu
lar excitement, to aid in elevating to the
highest office in the country a warrior
destitute of civil qualifications, and
who*-* reputation is derived from his
success as a practitioner in the s«i
en»« of human butchery, in a war
that his own partisans bavs styled
unconstitutional. unnecessary,
disgraceful,” and H barbarous.
Neither is h to be imagined that a sin
gle individual tbo prises Libert/ am
abhors slaver/, who loves peace am
values our Christian institutions, wil
vote either for a slaveholder or <mm
a ho is the creature of slaveholders
and who, for personal aggrandisement
and the power to distribute the office!
t sod treasure of the nation on politico
partizans, would plunge his countrj
into a war with an/ nation with whicl
a quarrel could be provoked. Shook
this be the case, however, and a mat
answering either description be elevatec
to the Chief Magistracy, a lesson nev
er to be forgotten will have beet
given to the young men of this coun
try, teaching them that time-serving,
office-seeking and flattering dema
gogueism, or successful fighting foi
territory and slaver)' are the tests ol
merit, and the qualiflcations for civil
office in the estimation of the People ol
the United States.
Neither can we believe that any Lib
ert v party man will cast his vote for a
politician who has, when in power,
proffered his aid to the slaveocracy o!
the country, and the world, and whe
has not evinced any desire that the re
cord should be expunged. Thougli
ready to award due praise to him whe
has repeatedly and ably advocated the
doctrine of the non-extension of sla
very, we cannot believe that while hf
rests there, and is decidedly opposed
to any important principles of th«
Liberty party, you will be instru
mental in elevating him again to the
Presidential chair.
But there are apprehensions that nol
a few disaffected Whigs and Demo
crats— men who refase to bow the
knee to party dictation—men who have
independence and conscience men
who are opposed to the extension ol
slavery, to the elevation of a warrior,
a slaveholder or a demagogue—men
.who profess to abhor slavery, nay, whe
avow their belief in the truth of anti
slavery doctrines, will, alter all, nomi
nate and vote for some mere Wilmol
Proviso man— this once —rather than
meet the crisis manfully, and unite with
the friends of Liberty in voting for one
w ho goes not only for the non-exten
sion, but for the non-existence of sla
very on the American Continent. Will
not such listen to the voice of expostu
lation and entreaty? A true-hearted
friend and advocate of Liberty stands
before you as the nominated represent
ative of the anti-slavery sentiment ol
the country. He has shown that he is
honest, capable and independent. Why
not then.unite with the friends of Lib
erty in giving him the entire anti-sla
very vote of the country He might
bo elected, but if not, the demonstra
tion made in favor of “Liberty
Equality Fraternity,” would be an
electric shock-to arouse the slumbering
energies of our countrymen, andjvihrate
among the Liberty-loving and Liberty
achieving people of Europe.- Is there
a man in your ranks-w hose position at
the present moment entitles hitu-fomnre
general favor and confidence, and- who
is more acceptable to the anti-slavery
electors of the country, than John P.
Hale? We think not, and are fully
persuaded that it is more reasonable
that we call upon you patriotically to
vote with us, than it is for you to invite
our co-operation. Principles, not
men,” should he the motto. It is time
that the friends of Liberty were united
in one great confederation, not only to
withstand and oppose the extension ol
American slavery, hut to deliver the na
tion from its blight and curse. Any
thing short of this is below the demands
of the age and the hopes of the world.
Republican freemen in Europe have set
us a noble example. Let us not lag
behind, and thus dishearten them in
their efforts to form a more perfect
union, establish justice, insure domestic
tranquility, provide for the common
defence, promote the general welfare,
and secure the blessings of Liberty” to
themselves and their posterity. Unit
ing, then, with our friends and brethren
throughout the Union, in a hearty re
commendation of Mr. Hale, “we earn
estly commend him to all Whigs and
Democrats who wish to vote against
slavery, as the man of the hour, pos
sessing in an eminent degree the purity,
wisdom, firmness and ability which the
country now needs at the helm; one
whom they can honestly and consist
ently vote, for, and thus secure all the
advantages of unity, without a sacrifice
of principle from any.”
Friends of the slave! the eyes of
Europe are upon us. They call our
country the Model Republic. We are
so with one great exception. Let that
stain be wiped from our national es
cutcheon. It was said by the departed
statesman, John Quincy Adams, the
preservation, propagation, and petpetu
ation of slavery, has been the vital and
animating spirit of the National Gov
ernment.” It might be so still, even
if the Wiimot Proviso be adopted, and
Oregon and the vast Mexican Territo
ries continue free from slavery. Let
us aim higher, aud while we oppose the
spread of the leprosy, effect a cure of
this most revolting and consuming dis
ease upon the body politic. “Let us
not suffer a knot of slaveholders for
ever to give law and prescribe the pol
icy of the countr Rather let vir
tuous men unite on the ground of uni
versal moral principle, and the tyranny
of party will be crushed.” To this
end be firm, united, progressive, uu-*
flinching, and persevere in the course
marked out, “unangered and unawed.”;
Continue to use moral suasion, cover
the land, as with autumnal leaves, with
anti-slavery publications, and with the!
speeches of the champions of freedom
in Congress preach, print, and
pray;” organize in school-districts, in
towns and villages; hold frequent meet
ings; go to other political meetings to’
proselyte and not to be proselyted;:
abandon not an inch of ground, already
acquired, but make aggressive move
ments. Invoke the aid of the pulpit, j
the press, the 1/ctum; above all, in-'
voke the aid of the oppressed—the God
of our fathers—that he will make this
indeed a Model Republic, where all!
men may rejoice in equal right. Let
>cur acta infuse new enthusiasm into'
Liberty-loving men across the Atlantic*
until Europe, regenerated and disen
thralled, shall echo the sublime lao
guage ef our revolutioaary patriots;— 1
“All men are created equal, and are
endowed by their Creator with retain
a
inalienable right*; that among then*
•re life, liberty, uml the pursuit of hap
piness.”
In conclusion, brethren and friends,
let it be your solemn and unalterable
determination that while yon oppose no
maw who is any way friendly to the
anti-slavery cause, yoa will not be in
strumental in his election to office Off
less be adopts the distinguished princi
ples of the Libert/ party; and espe
cially that you will not go backward in
the great anti-slavery Reform, but, ac
cording to the ability given you, do all
in your power to uphold the doctrines
and measures to the diffusion and main
tenance of which y«»n have pledged
yourselves before God and man.
Arthub Tare aw,
Lewis T*rrA.v,
Luther Lee,
S. Wilde,
C. B Rat,
S. S. JOCELIX,
Gorge WmrrLi,
J. Warmer,
J. W. C. PENN fNCTffS,
Wm. Johnsotx,
Thomas Ritter.
New York, July 1, 1848.
NEVER TOO LATE.
Ah! that I could be heard by all op
pressed dejected souls! I would cry to
them, Lift up your heads and con
fide still in the future, and believe that
it is never too late!” See I too was
bowed down by long suffering, and old
age had moreover overtaken me, and I
believe that* all my strength had vanish
ed, that my life and my sufferings were
in vain and behold! my heart appeas
ed, my soul strengthened; and now in
my fiftieth year, 1 advance into a new
future, attended by all that life lias of
beautiful and worthy of love.
The change in my soul has enabled
me better fo comprehend life and suf
fering, and I am now firmly convinced
that there is no fruitless suffering, and
that no virtuous endeavor is in vain.—
Winter days and nights may bury be
neath their pall of snow the sown corn;
but when the spring arrives, it will be
found equally true that “there grows
much, bread in the winter night.”—
Miss Bremer.
DANCING AS AN EXERCISE.
A few words may be offered in this
place in favor of dancing as an exer
cise, and as a school-room recreation.
Exercising so many muscles otherwise
little used—exercising them fully and
duly without violence—exercising them
to the cheering influence of music—ex
ercising them in forms of grace and
beauty—daucing may be made an im
portant and valuable part of the physi
cal education, and as such should be
spoken oft', and promoted by the power
ful voice of the medical public. The
balanced action of the opposing mus
cles, the active use of the different ar
ticulations, the extensive and varied
action of the spinal muscles, effected by
dancing, and the degree to-which the
mental excitement produced by if ena
bles-t-be exercise to be made use of
without twidoe fatigue, are strong rea
sons for so decided and favorable an
and this, without obtrusive
interference with opinions as to the pro
priety, or otherwise, of carrying the
practice of dancing to an excess in af
ter-life, and making it the pica for late
hours, &.c. Let people think as they
will of public balls, or even of private
balls; with the conscientious opinions
of others it is not tny wish, nor inten
tion to interfere; but to dancing in the
school-room, or among the members of
the family circle, few will object; and
it is not too much to say that if dancing
could be made a daily, not nightly, ex
ercise among the people of all classes,
the healthiness and the expectation of
life, as well as its happiness, would be
increased. —Robertson on Diet and Regi
men.
EFFECTS OF IMAGINATION ON
THE PHYSICAL FRAME.
Many years ago, a celebrated phy
sician, author of an excellent work on
the effect of imagination, wished to
combine theory with practice, in order
to confirm the truth of his propositions.
To this end, he begged the Minister of
Justice to allow him to try an experi
ment on a criminal condemned to death.
The minister consented, and delivered
to him an assassin of distinguished
rank. Our savant sought the culprit,
and thus addressed him: Sir, several*
persons w ho are interested in your fan
ily, have prevailed on the judge not to
require of you to mount the scaffold,;
and expose yourself to the gaze of the
populace. He therefore commuted
your sentence, and sanctions your be
ing bled to death within the precincts of
your prison; your dissolution will be
gradual and free from pain.”
The criminal submitted to his fluted
thought his family would be less dis- j
graced, and considered it a favor not to:
be compelled to walk to the place of
public execution. He was conducted
to the appointed room, where every
preparation was made beforehand; his!
eyes were bandaged; be was strapped
so a table; and, at a preconcerted sig
nal, four of his veins were gently
pricked with the point of a pin. Al
each corner of the table was a small
fountain of water, so contrived as toj
flow gently into a basin placed to re
ceive it. The patient believed it was
his blood he heard flowing, gradually
became weak; and the conversation of
the doctors, in an undertone, confirmed'
him in tbis opinion.
“What fine blood!” said one.
hat a pity tbis man should be con
condemned to die, be would have lived
long time.”
Hush!” said the other: then ap
proaching the first, he asked him in aj
low voice, but so as to be heard by the!
criminal, How many pounds of blood
are there in the human body?”
t ent J’' four Vou see already j
about 10 pounds extracted; that mania,
now in a hopeless state.”
The physicians then receded by de
grees, and continued to lover their
voice*. The stillness which reigned in
Ihe apartment, broken only by the drip-j
ping fountains, the sound of which was
also gradually lessened, so affected the
bram of the poor patient, that although
a man of vara strong constitution, he
fainted, and died without having lost a
drop of blood.