SPEECH OF GEO THOMPSON IN TORONTO
Citizens of Toronto: —The adver
tisements which have convened this
meeting have already informed you
that I appear in this hall to-night to de
liver a lecture upon the Evils of Sla
very. Idoso on the invitation of the
Anti-Slavery Society of Canada. I re
joice over the formation of that body,
and that its head quarters are to be in
this beautiful, improving and important
city. It was called into existence, as I
learn from its constitution, to cry
•loud to your neighbors beyond the
line, to stay their hands from prosecu-
I <ig a sys em of iniquity, and to invite
and urge them by every consideration
arising from our common Christianity,
to put a stop to it forever by the Abo
lition of Slavery. 1 am glad to find
that this duty is to be performed in the
spirit of those who entertain the feelings
of brethren and friends toward the in
habitants ofihe neighboring Slates, and
that you disclaim any desire to inter
meddle oflicious'y with the internal af
fair* of lh.il great, glowing Mid mighty
people, from whom you are separated
by so short a distance. The work you
have purposed to yourselves is worthy
of you, and the «pirit in which you pro
pose to prosecute it is worthy of you,
aud of those with whom you purpose to
co-nperate, as of those also, to whom
your Christian remonstrances and
brotherly rebukes will be directed. I
am rejoiced to find also that you hear
tily bid God-speed to the noble and
ever-increasing band of Christians and
Patriots in the United States, who pub
licly plead without fear or favor the
cause ol their enslaved fellow-citizens.
In this you do well. The true aboli
tionists ol the United States are emi
nently worthy of your admiration, your
encouragement and G<*d speed. The
world does not contain a nobler band
of men and women. In proportion as
you learn to know them, you will
leayn to love them, and to regard
them as that part of the popula
tion of the great American Union, who
are doing most for the diffusion of those
Divine principles, which lie at the foun
dation of the great doctrine of the uni
versal brotherhood of man, and of the
equal regard of our common parent for
all the children of the human family.
At a British subject I feel peculiarly
happy in being with you on this occa- i
•ion. lam increasingly happy to find
myself upon the same platform in the
new world, with those who have been
my fellow-laborers in the cause of
Emancipation in the old world—to find
them still alive, active and vigorous in
the cause in which we labored and tri
umphed on the shores of our native
cou try, to find, too, that they have
faith in the power and universality ol
the truths which were successfully a~j
plied to our own Colonial system of ne
gro bondage. This is as it should be.
Wc won the victory over West Indian
bondage—not because we were Brit
ons, hut because the truths we
preached were divine, universal, and
•ternal. Tins is no question of lati
tude and longitude—it is a human
auestion. I ask not, is the slave my
fellow-subject, but is he a man? I ask
not, do 1 stand upon British or Amer
ican soil, but am I still in God’s domin
ions? Am I still under the law of the
Supreme Ruler, and are the great
pr.uciples of morality and justice still
tat same? If my brother is held in un
just bondage, my message is the same,
whether it be to my own or any other
human government. Thus saith the
lord, break every yoke, and let the
oppressed go free”. I have come
a.nongst you to ciscuss the question on
no low or narrow grounds. In my
wind it ftiks itself indissolubly with
•very topic within the entire range of
religion and human duty. It ascends
to the very being of God, and has to do
with His character, His attributes, and
Hi* moral government of the world. It
entwinos itself around the spiritual na
ture, hopes, fears, joys, sorrows—the
present condition and future destinies
of man. It must be understood before
we aan comprehend man’s responsibili
ties, or know the meaning of the com
mand “I am (he Lord thy God, and
thou ahalt have no other God befort
roe. This question cannot be separa
ted f om 'be doctrine of a future ant
and of a just and uner-
THE NORTH STAR.
FREDERICK BOTCLISS, Etllor lit ProprlHor.
VOL. lV r NO. 17.
ring retribution. It cannot be dis
joined from the capacity, imprnveable
neaa and immortality of the soul. Ii
concerns the all-important questions o
the inspiration, authority, and interpre
tation o| Scripture. It defines the limit
of human statutes, and settles the ques
tion of the paramount claims and obli
gations of the law of individual con
science, and of God. It must be studied
if we would know who is our neighbor
and what is our duty towards him, or
to what extent we are authorized in ap
plying the principles of the everlasting
ffosnel end the truths aT i.
the affairs of the world. As far as I
have been connected with the great
question of slavery, it has been with me
a question of politics. It is transcend
ency—it is infinitely above all human
politics. If there be a principle at the
bottom of this question—or in other
words, if there be any truth in the doc
trine that there is a God—that he is the
Creator and Governor of the world—
that he is the sole proprieior of man—
and that man belongs of right to him
self, and is responsible only to the Su
preme Ruler lor his actions, then sla
very is not an institution to be
regulated, but a crime to be abol
ished—not a condition to be mod
ified, but a wrong to be redrCssed,
I then religiou and morality demand that
(he evil doer return to the allegiance he
owes to God, and the slave be instantly
restored to his rights as a man. This
whole subject revolves itself into the
question. Can man hold property in
man? If this question be answered in
the affirmative, then we have no ground
to stand upon. Then *ve are impel ti
nent intermeddle!s, whether we speak
against slavery on English, Canadian,
or American soil. But if it be an
swered in the negative, then our feet
are placed upon a rock, and our com
mission is, Go ye into all the world,
and wherever ye find the Divine Crea
tor and sole proprietor of man de
throned by the usurpation of his pre
rogative; denounce the daring impiety,
and that God be restored ro his rightful
dominion, by the restoration of liberty
to that subject of his government who
who is now held in chattel bond
age.” Giant that inan may hold prop
erty in man, and you are a trespass! i
on the plantation, and an invader of le
gitimate rights. Deny the infernal doc
trine, and you are a true and lo)al sub
ject of the King of Kuigs—the vindica
tor of His outraged tights—the restorer
of his children—the upholder of His
government —aye, and the savior ot
the slaveholder himself. Go foith in
the strong belief that man cannot have
property in man, and you are at once
a co-worker with God. You aie ai
once in harmony with universal truth
—your doctrine finds an eclio in every
human heart—the consciences of all
meft are on your side—you have at
once enlisted the affections, agonies,
exaltations and hopes of humanity on
your side. Can man hold property in
inan? Can man become a God on the
one hand? can man become a beast on
<he other? Can the master be man
and God in the same person? or can
t ie slave be man and beast in the same
person? Can a creature own an equal
tellow-creature? Can the potsherd say
unto the potsherd—“ Thou art miner”
Can the sinner be God over his fellow?
Or can another man, formed like him,
be at once free to serve God, and
doomed to serve a man Be a rational,
immortal and accountable soul in his
relation to God —a marketable, degra
ded beast, who may be manacled,
scourged, branded, hunted and shot
like a wild animal, in his relation to
man? Has the master a soul? So has
the slave. Is the master responsible?
So is the slave. Has the master affec
tions? So has the slave. Does the
master hope fear, rejoice So does the
slave. Must the master be free, that
he may fulfil the purposes for which he
was born, and glorify God in the use of
his faculties? So equally must the
man he calls his property. Would the
master, if he were made a slave, re
gard his doom as worse than death and
lose the crown of glory Irom his brow?
It is even so with the slave. Away for
ever then with the doctrine that has
tilled the world with woe, that inan,
whose breath is in his nostrils, can have
property in his fellow man. If these
views be admitted to be correct, with
what feelings must that system be re
garded which makes merchandize ol
three millions of the human race, or
one hundred and twenty times as many
as the entire population of the City ol
Toronto. A system, too, which entails
slavery upon the posterity of these
three millions to the very latest gene
ration. Yet, such is the system which
at this moment sheds its balelul influ
ence over every part of the Great Re
public Co which you are so near neigh
bors. I hree millions of tmbru’ed men,
women and children, the chattels ol
20,000 tyrannical and sordid men—the
disgrace, us they are the curse ot their
species. A money-making confedera
tion, to which the stock is in human
hearts and human souls. While other
men call themselves rich in flocks, and
herds, and fields and farms, these men
count their riches according to the
number of souls that tremble at their
glance, and the capacity of their hu
man cattle to increase and multiply.
They rear children as you would rear
sheep or calves—they put beauty, and
lovliness, and youth, and purity, and in
telligence and piety up at auction, and
sell them to the highest bidder. They
sell their own children without remorse,
and are filling the shambles of America
vith the best blood of Virginia and the
Carolines. Ob, what a monster it
satisfied with the legitimate
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR; GOD IS TBBjrATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARB BRETHREN.
dominion given him by hie Create
ov ir the beasts of the field, the fowls c
the sir, and the fish of the sea—not sal
isfied with every tree of the garden,—
with every green meat, an
the cattle upon a thousand hills—no
satisfied with the promise that sum
mer and winter, seed time and harves
will never cease”— he has put fortl
his hand, and taken hold upon tha
which God had reserved for himself—
the only creature made to glorify God
by the faculties of a deathless soul;—
that creature man has seised—has torr
MMH* r~-i-rr iiii hnniM L«« IL
hirn of his dignity, and stamped him a<
a beast. Aye, advertises hitn for salt
with oxen and horses, and lashes hitn
with a scourge to the shambles, where
he is to be sold! And yet there are
those, in America, who ask whether
slavery is not a religious and divine ir.sti
tution And lor what is rnan enslaved?
What great purpose is accomplished
by this robbery of God—the sacrilege
ot man—the wreck of soul—this anni
hilation of intellect—this wringing ot
the heart-strings of humanity, this deg
radation of tho loftiest being in tin
world to the lowest condition of which
a tamed brute is capable? Is there
some grand object of stupendous mag
nitude, which cannot be accomplished,
unless this be done, and which make."
it expedient if not right that one portion
of the human race should be sacrificed,
that the rest may be saved? It is, that
a few may be idle themselves, and yet
sell, rice tobacco, sugar and cotton. And
it is asked, Is slavery religious? No
man need »6k whether slavery be irre
ligious. Can that be religious which
dethrones God and puts man in hif
place!* Can that be religious which
strikes at the root at once of the free
dom, responsibility, dignity and happi
ness of man? Can that he religious
which makes one man a tyrant and an
other a slavel and creates a gulph be
tween them, wide as that between tin
burning seraph near the throne ol
God, and the reptile that lives upon
the vapor of a dungeon? Ask not
whether it can be religious lor your
own heart tells you it is not human}
You shoot without remorse the wild
beast that comes into your fold and
steals the lambs of your flock. Sla
vfciy waits till the agony of the mother
is over, to plunder her of the fruit of
her womb, and to write beast upon that
brow which was intended to wear the
stamp of intelligence, and the crown
of immortality. How appalling is the
state ol America, when viewed in con
nection with the prostration of politics
literature, commerce, social intercourse,
and religion, before the spirit of sla
very! To the man who looks through
lorms, ceremonies, professions and
creeds, to the actual and pervading
spirit of a nation, America seems to
have no actuating principle but slavery
no God but slavery. At the South, the
soil is monopolized by it. It over
shadows millions of acres of the fairest
portions of God’s creation. Every
portion of the population is under it»
direct and übsolute influence The
patrician class are the slaveholders.
1 heir wealth is computed in slaves.
Their influence regulated by the num
ber ol their slaves. Their resperti.b I
tty measuied by the number of slaves.
The slaves themselves are nothing 6e
sides slaves. Their muscular power—
their mechanic skill —their powers o
endurance—their spiritual intelligence
—their personal beauty—their fecun
dt y, as be«ngs capable of multiplying
their species—all weighed, tested, ap
praised, in connection with slavery.
The free people of color as they are
called in mockery, are regarded as be
low contempt. Having no marketable
value, they are nuisances, eye-sores,
and abominations—the very filth and
ofl'seourmg of the body politic, to be
got rid of, as soon as means can be de
vised, to gather them up as the scum
ol humanity to be thrown off the sur
face of society, The nou-slaveholding
whites in the South are a race of mon
grels, who exist, not live; who are tol
erated, not encouraged; and who have
no status or position among their own
kind. What the state of morals in such
a community must be, it needs no sta
tistics nor newspaper facts to prove.
We know, however, from the records
of every day, as well as from the de
ductions of reason, the condition of the
South in regard to morals. We know
that, superadded to the vices ofthe fret
States, there are crimes and immoral
ities peculiar to the region of slavery.
We know, that human lusts are with
out a check or restrain. We know,
that all that is precious to one of the
sexes, is the sport of those who live to
fcratify their passions. We know, that
mari'iage —as an indissoluble tie, as a
legal contract, as protected by law, as
giving the husband the right to defend
the wife, is utterly unknown amongsi
the three millions of the South. We
know that a bear in the forest, has a
better chance of rearing unmolested bet
whelps, and of keeping them when she
has reared them, than the human
mother who suckles slaves. We know,
that symmetry and beauty, are the cur
ses of their owners, and mark them out
for infamy and perdition. We know,
that Religion is made to coalesce vitn
this slate of things. That the ministers
of religion are slaveholders, slave
breeders, graziers in human cattle,
slave-whinpers; and the friends, co
partners, and co-plunderers, with the
vilest of the vile of the intelligent ere
atiou. We know, that humanity is a
crime. The love ofequaj freedom—the
unpardonable sin; and that tho priest
hood consent to the martyrdom of the
emancipatist, and will told the clothes
of those who atobt hull. How much
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THUMDAY, APRIL 17, 1851.
r better is it at the North!! The religion
l of the North religion of
ihe Souih I bare pfihftei letters in
my written bjt dofebolding
i ministers, since I cauwftf America,
i boasting of the fraternal! seating ev
erywhere given them mfjoejree States,
—of »he pulpits thrown Ope* to them—
i of the sacraments administered by them,
and reporting*the state ail tl{s religious
mind, as sound and kealtky the sub
ject of slavery* What a fearful reve
lation has the late fugitive dlye law led
to. "It might have been to prove
*et tkjt 1 wjmSK slsa 18h ataxe
of the Northern American Churches.
Christendom may stand aghast at the
doctrines which have been preached by
the descendants of the Puritans, since
that Bill became the law of the United
States. Take the entire range of
Northern literature cf every class.—l.
The penny papers that cater for the ap
petites of tho multitude.—2, The pa
pers that are the organs of trade and
commerce.—3, The papers that sup
port political parties —4, The papers
that are the representatives of religious
denominations.—s, The periodical lit
erature, in the shape of magazines,
reviews and miscellanies. Either they
stoutly defend slavery—meanly apolo
gize for slavery, or are profoundly si
lent on the subject. An American
canno* name the influential periodical
journal, that writes in favor of human
lily, and directly and equivocally con
demns slavery. I have now referred
to that description of literature which
is carfully provided for the known
moral and intellectual palates of the
people. Are you not justified in infer
ring tbe state of the public mind from
these vindications? Take graver works.
Woiks on moral prilosophy, Reprints
of English works. Works on American
History. Works on Political Econ
omy. All contain the proofs, positive
or negative, of the fact, that the spirit
of slavery reigns in the department o!
literature, as supremely as in the Cot
ton and rice fields of Alabama or Car
olina. These are startling and affect
ing signs of the times. Look again at
the tameness—the submissireness—the
almost thankfulness with which th«
North allows herself to be deprived ol
her rights, and her* citizens going
South to be treated worse than curs.
She allows the crews of her vessels to
be plundered of their citizen-rights,
and thrust into dungeons, and sold to
pay their jail fees, Sh« allows her own
diplomatic ministers to be ordered oui
of a Southern State by u Lynch com
mittee. She allows her best sons to
have their backs ploughed up—their
heads shaved—their bodies tarred and,
leathered —to he hunted, mobbed,
ducked, drowned, imprisoned, cat
hauled. branded, and shot like dogs—
and never utters a woid of. remon
strance. What is the only subject
which wili now raise a mob?—Aboli
tion. What is the worst character a
man can bear in the Church?—The
character of being an abolitionist j
VV hat is the opinion a ruan takes most
pains to conceal?—The opinion that
Slavery is a curse and a disgrace to
the country. What class of men, of all
nthers, is it that may be ridiculed and
libelled with impunity—in the pulpit, in
public letters, in lyceums, at dinners,
on political platforms?—Abolitionists,
what meetings are they to which row
dies and little boys know they may go—
to shuffle, whistle, crow,and rough with
impunity?—The meetings of abolition
ists. What religious views are termed
heresies? Those that view man a a
man, whatever be his color or his coun
try. What slave is it of all the slaves
m the world, that an Arserican may
not succour?—The slave born in his
own country, and perchance the son ol
one of its most distinguished patriots.
What animal is it ihut a Southern man
my hunt over all the valleys, hills and
plains of the free States?— Man! The
American Game Laws grant licenses
to hunt this animal throughout the
land, and make it a crime—ua y,treason
—to attempt to succor, defend, or
rescue the prey of the blood-scenters
of the South, when on the track ol the
flying and quivering fugitive. No
American will deny that I have drawn
a true picture of the state of his
country.
No American will deny that the pro
slavery sentiment is the paramount sen
timent of tbe United States. Slavery
in America is superior to all law, for it
is the controlling spirit of the country.
There is no higher code than the
bloody enactments of slavery. The
great religious controversy at this mo
ment in the United States is upon the
question, whether there is any higher
law than the Fugitive Slave Law; and
the majority—the vast majority of the
Divines go> for the superior authority of
the Congress, and preach openly to
their congregations, that thus saith
Millard Fillmore, is more binding than
thus saith the Lord; and that a letter
signed Daniel Webster is infinitely
more worthy of attention than the Ser
mon on the Mount. If anything more
than another CRn prove the horrid in
fluence and dominion of slavery in the
United States, it is the fact that because
the demon hates tbe Bible, the Chris
tian denominations of that country have
consented to withhold it from the three
millions of Southern slaves. Yet, if
any portion of the human race need
the Bible, heaven knows, it is the
slaves. This has always appeared to
me the fact which above all others
proved the demoralizing influence and
atheistical character of slavery—that
men who profess to regard tbe Bible as
the Word of God aud tbe revelation of
his will to tho children of non, should
deliberate)/ oonoeot to see it withhold
from their fellow immortal beings and
enter no protest against laws whicli
punish the second offence of teaching
the Bible with the penalty of death.—
Christians of Toronto, of all sects! J
summon you to-night to the rescue o!
pure and undefiled religion from the
dishonor cast upon it by slavery in the
United States of America, if a nation
is to be judged by its iruits, and ac
cording to the prevailing influence
which directs, controls and domineers
in every department—in the field—on
the exchange—in the closet of the au
thor—the study of the minister—the
/tS*e-m»*j r w iu„
Conference of the Methodist—the Hall
of Legislation—the Cabinet of the
General Government—l ask you who
is the God of America? Is this th*
God who hath made of one blood ah
nations of men to dwell on all the fact
of the earth, and hath determined the
bounds of their habitation”—the God
who is no respecter of persons, wh*
directed Philip to join himself to tht
Ethiopian Eunuch” who hath said
4 Cry aloud, spare not,” —the God who
spake from the burning bush—who sent
his son .to seek and save the lost—
whose tender mercies are over all his
works: Is this the God who is served
in America? I see a consistency be
tween the religion and the acts of th*
devil-worshippers of interior Africa.—
The medicine mummeries of the North
American Indian correspond wilh th.
habits and pursuits of these children ol
the wilderness. I can understand th*
Persic fire worshipper when he bow*,
before the sacred flame, or hails ih«
sun as he comes forth from the cham
bers of the east. 1 can understand the
Mahomedan—the warrior of the luitn—
who goes forth with the sword in ont
hand and the Koran in the other, to
spread the religion of the Prophet. I
can understand the Hindoo when ht
washes in the Ganges, or prostrate*-
himself under the wheels of Jugger
naut; but I cannot understand the reli
gion of America, and least of all rec
oncile it, as it is seen in the lives of its
professors, with that religion of love,
whose object, aim, spiiit, duties, bless
ings, hopes, rewards, honors and glo
ries are liberty! whose founder came
to preach deliverance to the captive,
and the opening of the prison to them
that are bound. Wherever I travel it.
America, I am still in the realms of sla
very. The country ;s magnificent and
glorious the mountains are stupen
dous and sublime—the rivers roll tlieii
floods along in majesty and beauty
the valleys stretch awa} in verdure and
loveliness—there are towering steeples
and multitudinous priests, and busy
crowds hastening to worship, and a
never-ending still beginning round oi
rites, ceremonies and observances—
there are loud and ostentatious procla
mations of the duties and obligations oi
religion, and thanksgivings, and feasts,
and festivals; but all these hide not Iron,
i he sight the presence of the foul demon
of slavery—his spirit is everywhere—
his dominion universal—his will depot
ic. The glorious external creation
seems but the vestibule of bis glorious
temple, and all the rites and ceremonies
of the people seem to be subordinate
to the profound and soul-prostrating
homage paid to this insatiate fiend,wh..
has seated himself above all that is
called God, and daily demands the liv
ing death of three millions of the hu
man race. Amidst all the temples of
America, I see another, and entering
its dreary portals, and penetrating to
the chamber where sits this God ol
America, 1 behold him amid all the
symbols of pollution and woe, with his
heel upon the manacled form of Amer
ican Liberty, surrounded by crushed
hearts, darkened souls, d< flowered
maidens, weeping Rachels, and lustful
tyrant? —issuing his mandates for the
enslavement of a continent—swaying a
sceptre of scorpions over his quivering
victims—a sceptre of iron over his vol
untary, self-degraded vassals, arid with
demoniacal exultation exclaiming—See
how these Christians love one another!
And this is the system that has to be
abolished. Oh, this anti-slavery cause
is a cause of surpassing greatness.
There is nothing little about it but its
advocates. If we would swell beyond
the dwarfish dimensions of our own
narrow souls—our own petty prejudices
—let us gaze often and long upon the
fabric we are seeking to extirpate.—
There is real grandeur in the gloomy
vastness of the huge superstructure of
guilt we ere seeking to abolish. Try
to measure its ciicumference, and you
will fail. Let down the line into the
horrid abyss, and you shall bring it up
again, exclaiming O the depths!”
Try to count the groans, and agonies,
and sighs pressed by this system into
every instant of time, and arithmetic
shall fnil you. Try to penetrate the
future and to grasp the issues of this
system, and your imagination, halting
and weary, shall give up in despair.—
Try to compute the value of one of the
millions of souls daily imbruted by this
system—put it into the scale against
the material universe, and it shall make
the vast magnificence of unintelligent
creation to kick the beam,—then try to
compute the value of the slaves, past,
present, and to come. Take up this
work aa one of mere humanity—ot
mercy to animals. Oh, it is far higher
and holler than this. Christianity must
be exhumed from her sepulchre, and
you must roll away the stone. The
genius of liberty must be disenthralled,
and you must break her bonds. Mind,
immortal, Illimitable mind, waits to be
let into liberty and life. The Bible, in
chains, cries, Emancipate me and let
me go free. The earth calls, Deliver
me from my curse. Labor cries, 4 am
TERMS —$2 Per Annua, Invariably In AAranc*.
degraded, dishonored, infamous; re
deem me, and let me be again the glory
of him who tills the soil. Morality
says, Behold me—l am wounded, vio
lated, struck down; let me once again
stand erect to teach man his duties and
he the guardian of human rights. The
negro says, Have pity upon me, and
transform me from a beast into a man.
Have pity on that woman, my concu
bine, whom I may not make my wife.
Behold my empty table plundered of its
contents, my daughter polluted and ru
ined.
Let us turn to the bright side of the
QLcture. if thero is slavery in the U.
J>., there is also anti-slavery. 1* therr
are those who prnmnot.
and influence to the support of slavery,
there are those also who devote them
selves, time, talents, property, health,
reputation and all, to the cause ol tht
slave. If there are those who pas
fugitive slave bills, there are those who
execrate those bills, and hold them to
be atrocious violations, under the name
of law, of every precept, divine and
human, pointing to the duties which
man owes to his fellow-man. The anti
slavery cause is advancing with ma
jestic strides. Its aspect is truly sub
lime. When I was formerly in the IT.
S., the abolitionists were few, and ther*
fore despised; now, their name is Le
gion. Now they speak, and the Legis
lature listens. Now they issue theii
command, anJ it is obeyed. Twenty
years of unceasing effort has made thi
the question of questions. In the anti
slavery ranks is to be found intellect as
lolly as any to be found in the ranks o.
-lavery, and an amount ol moral cour
age arid indomitable zeal and perseve:-
ance never excelled in the prosecution
of any other enterprise, not excepting
those of an exclusively religious char
acter. In this conflic', the abolitionism
ask and have a right to expect the sym
pathy and aid of the entire civihz*-'
world; and the man who is not willing
to give them that which they ask, is n<
Iriend of liberty. I have been told
since I came to this city, that there ar*
those in it who inquire, Whit have we
to do wuh this matter? If any suci
persons are here,.l would say, Every
thing. Are you separated geograph
ically and politically from the countr)
where slavery reigns? We are forthai
very reason the persons best able to
form an unbiassed and sound judgment
>n the question at issue. We have as
rpueh to do with this question us with
uny question that concerns the happi
ness ol man, the glory of God, or the
hopes and destinies of the human race.
W e have to do with this question, for it
lies at the foundation of your own
rights as a portion of the human fam
i-y. The cause of liberty is one alt
uver the world. What have you to do
with this question? The slave is youi
brother and you cannot dissolve that
Union. While he remains God’s child,
ie will remain your brother. He is
nelpless and you are free and powerful,
nod if you neglect him, you are not do
"g a 3 you would have others do to you,
were you in bonds. Know you not that
it is God’s method to save man by man,
nnd that man is only great and honora
ble and blest himself, as he is the friend
find defender of those who need his aid?
Vou are dwellers on continent with
three millions of slaves. Their sighs
come to you with every breeze from the
South. Oh, hasto to help them, that
this glorious continent may be freed
from its pollution and its Curse. Give
the fugitive your aid. You have thus
far done nobly. Continue to'receive
kindly and to cherish hospitably on
these shores the refugees from the
house of American bondage. Give the
abolitionists your sympathy. Let them
hear in tones louder than those of Ni
agara your woids of encouragement—
your hearty God-speed. It will refresh
and reanimate them in their work, and
cause them to gird up their loins aad
renew the struggle. The influence I
ask you to exert is moral influence, and
against that there can be no legitimate
objection, as there can be no effectual
resistance. Let your weapons be those
of truth, reason and religion, and the
time shall come when, from sea to sea,
and from the Arctic regions to Panama,
this soil shall be sacred to freedom
Mr. Thompson was It equently inter
rupted by enthusiastic bursts of ap
plause, and sat down amidst continued
cheering.
After a few remarks from Frederick
Douglass, the Rev. Dr. Burns closed
the meeting with prayer.— Toronto Pa
triot.
The Cost of War. —Give me the
money that has been spent in war, and
1 will purchase every toot of land upon
(he globe, I will clothe every man.
woman, and child in an attire of which
kings and Queens would be proud. I
will build a school-house on every hill
side, and in every valley over the whole
earth; I will build an academy in every
town, and endow it; a colege in every
state, and fill it with able prolessors; I
will crown every hill with a place of
worship, consecrated to the promulga
tion of the Gospel of peace; 1 will sup
port in every pulpit an able teacher of
righteousness, so that on every Sabbath
morning (he chime on one hill should
answer to the chime on another round
the earth’s wide circumtereace; and
the voice of prayer and the song of;
praise should ascend like a universal
holocaust to Heaven.— B. Brown.
A mnn named G«orge Thompson,,
from Massachuttf, being in a Southern
State lately, narrowly eseaped being!
lynched on account of his incendiary
Basse.
WHOLE NO. 173.
SOMOWI OP SEWING WOMEN.
A meeting of Sewing Women of this
city wns held s few tveni igs since to
consider whet mesas might he devised
to improve their circum fences aad
prospects In the course of the even
ing a pale, feehie looking women rose
end eeked losre to make tome state
ments. In a modest unaffected strain
she proceeded to unfold a tittle of her
own experience. She had nought em
ployment ir. shirt-making, as the only
means she could adopt for self-ewppoit,
and has been engaged by a house in
terested in supplying the Cfthforuia
market. Th* price allowed her was 10
cents each, and by the closest applica
tion she had succeeded in sewing two
shirts a day, or oaa dozen per week.
She refeted a room for which she paid
sixty-two and a half cents a week, oet
of her earnings of one duller and
twenty cents, leaving fifty-neven sod a
half cents for fuel, food, clothing, light,
&c., for a whole week!!
For three weeks site had not tasted
meat, except once at the house of ft
lady who asked her to dine. Her
I daily fare was bread and tea, and small
allowances of i hese. The same drawio*
I of tea was doubtless washed over ana
over again till it no longer discolored
the water, and this, with the dry bread,
was to furnish the nourishment that
was to support her through the long
hours of application. No wonder ehn
was pale, no wonder her fiaU frame
'rernbled and at time* seemed ready to
'ink to the floor. She sat down, and a
momentary silence followed, and tears
started in many eyes, end many hearts
btirs with emotion
It was enough to call up tears and
burdened the heart, that plain, simple
*ale of unrequited toil and suffering.
But, alas, how many more worthy, vir
iuous, lovely women, capable of being
the angels of home and missionaries of
tenderness and pity among the die
ressed, could tell (he aame tale and
woe. We muy reckon them by thou
sands in this city. They are tolling
mm twelve to fifteen hours out of the
twenty-four, and all they make barely
seeps them from starvation. Every
chip, or stick, or piece of coal added to
the litile fire over which the poor sew
ng woman shivers, is parted with sor
rowful!) she knows not how to maka
he fuel last till her task is done. She
Joes not expect to be warm, only to
keep her fingers from stiffening, that
she may sew, sew, sew. She takes
her dry bread and so-called tea, not ex
acting to be refreshed, but only kept
from sinking, that she may sew, sew.
<ew. Perhaps she is a widow, and a
ittle one claims part of her time and
care. But she has no time to love and
fondle it. She can only think of keep
ing it from hunger and cold. The in
ant itself, accustomed to its mother's
tnxious look, looks anxious too, and
arely smiles. It is a desperate strug
gle for life that is going on among all
hese sewing women, uud the wonder
s that death and starvation are held at
'my so long. Not lees wonderful is it
that we can know of such a struggle
going on in our midst, and not be in an
guish ol heart till something is djne to
.succor the sufferers.
The degree of suffering endured by
ihis class of our fellow-citizens is in
tense in mid winter when fuel is so dear
ihat the whole of their earnings would
hardly buy enough coal to keep them
warm. Something may be done to al
levatethis by our standing charities.but
ihe muin evil, of shockingly depressed
wages, calls for another and nfhre rad
ical treatment. What shall be done,
and when?—JV. Y. Organ.
GEORGE LUNT.
We wonder if ttie cold passionless
looking being, called Geo. Lunt, who
we saw acting as United States Attor
ney, during the examination of the al
leged rescuers of Skadrach, is the
George Lunt who was born in New
huryport in 1807,”and who is designa
ted by Griswold, in hia Poets anO Po
etry of America, as one whose pieces
are remarkable for that purity of
uought which distinguishes the wri
tings of the Christian bards!” If the
persons are identical, there must have
oeen some legerdemain practiced to
change the soul which used to belong
to this particular body. The Hindoos
believe that at death the spirits of the
departed find local habitations in the
bodies of cows, heifers, pigs, dogs,
lions, tigers and other animals. We
cannot say that we believe in this doc
trine of metempsychosis, but if tho
George Lunt who used to write poetry
in praise, of freemen and freedom, ia
identical with George Lunt, the hu
man slave hunting blood hound-in-ohief
for 7 Massachusetts, then we must be
lieve that these Hindoos knew a thing
or two. Perhaps the .spirit of 1 wolf
has dispossessed from the cavities of
George Kent’s body the human soul
that used to exclaim,
“My burning heart I will not lend,
To wire a dealing dupot’i away;
A suppliant knee I will out bend
Belure these things of brass and ctsy,"
for the George Lunt who prosecutes
Christians uow a days, and lends hie
whole heart and energies ta save a
“despot’s sway,” and if he does not
bend to things of brass and clay, ho
bends to a metal that can be more con
veniently put in the pocket, and counts
higher in the rate of values amongst the
money changers. We are decidedly
of opinion that if the two George Lunie
resolve themselves into one, then the
nature which the devil inteudtd for
some swine of Tartaiua, mu«»t have got
into the wrong place, in older to qual
ify a man with meanness and ferocity
sufficient to make him the willing myr
madon of a shameless, malignant, im
placable, persecutor of every man
who loves liberty, and who believes
that the laws of the Lord God reguaut
in the heavens and on earth, are paia
mount to the edicts of kidnappers.—*
Matt. -Spy.
The Memory or the Pea©.- It i#
an exquisite and beautiful thing in our
nature, that when the heart is touched
and softened by some tranquil happi
ness or affectionate feeling, the me-
I moiy of the dead comes over it moat
powerfully and irresistibly. It Would
almost seen as though our better
thoughts and sympathies were ehanae,
in virtue of which the coal is enable to
hold some vague and mysterious inter
course with the spirit of those whom wa
dearly love in life. Alee! how often
land how long may thews patient angel#
I hover above us, watching for the spell
[which is so seldom uttered end to sooq
forgotten!— Ditkmt,
Seventeenth Annnal Meeting or the Ame
rican Anti-Slavery Society.
By the Bth article of the Constitution, it is
provided that ‘the annual meeting of the so
ciety shall be held each year at such time and
place, as the Executive Committee may di
rect. Hitherto, since the formation of the
Society, the annual meeting has been uniform
ly held in the city of New York, and usually
in the Broadway Tabernacle. So absolute,
however, is the sway of the slave power in
that city, and such the fear of mobocratic ex
cess, (stimulated by ‘the Union Committee on
the one hand, and the lawless Rynders and
his crew on the other,) that no meeting-house
or hall, in that great city, can be procured
either for the love of liberty or for gold, for
the accommodation of .the Society. Neither
in the adjacent city of Brooklyn can any
suitable building be obtained for this purpose.
Leaving these cities to the historical infamy
which awaits them, the Executive Committee,
in accordance with the urgent request of the
friends of impartial liberty in Western New
York, hereby give notice that the Seven
teenth Annual Meeting of the American
Anti-Slavery Society will be held at SYRA
CUSE, (N. Y.,) on Wednesday, May 7th,
commencing at 10 o’clock, A. M.—at which
time and place they earnestly invite a full
attendance of its members and friends be
lieving that the crisis is such, in the convic
tion of every intelligent, mind, both as to the
preservation of our own liberties and the
emancipation of the millions who are still
clanking the fetters of slavery, as to rondo
noodtoon any special appeal.
It is with great pleasure the Committee
announce, that their distinguished and elo
quent coadjutor, George Thompson, M.P.,
has promised to give his attendance, and par
ticipate in the proceedings. The Rev. Theo
dore Parker, of Boston, has also signific ..is
intention to be with us on the {occasion, if
practicable, as well as other able advocates of
‘liberty, equality, fraternity.' A series of
meetings, of the most interesting and stirring
character, may be confidently expected. Much
reliance is placed on the readiness and deter
mination of the friends of the cause at the
West to improve this opportunity to com
mune with their brethren from the East.
In behalf of the Executive Commitee,
Wm. L. GARRISON, President.
Wendell Phillips,
Sydney Howard Gay, ecre/ar,w
It? Editors of papers are respectfully te
quested to notify their readers of the time and
place of holding this anniversary.
Sljf Nor 11) Star.
ROCHESTER, APRIL 17, 1851.
K7* We shall rely upon our esteemed friend
and coadjutor, James C. Morel, to act at
agent of the North Star in Brooklyn. The
subscribers there may pay to him their sub
scriptions.
To our Subscribers. —We beg to state
that a number of oui subscriptions for the pres
ent year yet remain unpaid, and we shall es
teem it a favor if our friends, who are in
arrears, will enclose them to us by mail with
out further delay.
Qjr* A must searching discourse on tne
new National Slave Law," has been re
cently delivered in Canandaigua, the head
quarters of silver grayism, by out excellent
friend, L. Whitney. Extracts shall appear
next week.
KJ* We learn that George Thompson,
Esq., is now in Syracuse, and that he will
lecture before the Teacher’s Convention now
assembled at that place. There is strong
hopes that he will be able to visit Canandai
gua, and perhaps Farmington, before the An
nual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery
Society in Syracuse, on the 7th May.
UjP There are in this city, as in most other
large American cities, a miserable set of idle,
and besotted white loafers, whose only appa
rent occupation is, to stand at the street cor
ners, and to insult peaceable colored people as
they pass. These pitiable creatures seem to
have do other means of establishing a sense of
their own importance. And the best way to
treat them is, with silent contempt.—f. d.
lU* The speech of Mr. May will be read
with pleasure by our friends on both sides of
the St. Lawrence and the lakes. It ia an
able and eloquent appeal to our Canadaian
neighbors to array themselves on the aide of
emancipation. The common destiny of the
people of this continent, compel them to be
parties to this great question. Slavery ronst
be abolished or become j univeisal on this
continent.—f. d.
Fay you a Postage. —Do pay your post
age Why will you not pay your postage?
Come now, our friends, let us beseech you
ooce more to pay your postage! We are
constantly receiving letters—large, ten cent
letters, written on all sides, and on the mar
gins, intended for publication in the North
Star, some of which would stand a chance
of being published, but that the fiist draft
upon our charity and patience, divests us at
once of ihoee qualities necessary to the pre
paration of such letters for the public eye.
Friends, we are not able to pay your post
age, and we do, therefore, most earnestly be
seech you to pay your own postage.” f. d.
Rochester Anti-Slavery Festival.
The Committee of Thirteen Ladies are
making vigorous and extensive preparations
for a grand entertainment in honor of George
Thompson, Esq., the eloquent champion of
emancipation. They are not yet able to state
on what day the Festival will be held.
Our country friends who are intending to
aid ua by donations of poultry, eggs, butler,
cream, fruit, Ac., are requeated to forward
them aa early as the 35d.
We anticipate on this occasion, an assem
blage such as baa seldom convened in this
city for any philanthropic or religious object,
in a long time.
The magnificent Corinthian Hall—the
finest building for lecturing purposes in West
ern New York, has been secured. Besides
bountiful refreshment tables, a part of ths
all will be furnished with tables laden with
rich, elegant and beautiful articles, recently
received from Bristol, Biidgwater and Man
chester, England, and Cork, Ireland.
M There will be music and anti-slavery ad
dresses during the evening.—r. n.
Thomas [Simms C'laiifned to Slavery.
Let the Heavens weep and let Hell be
merry! Slavery h‘ii triumphed! Daniel
Webster has at last obtained from Boston,
tue cradle ofliberty, a living escrifice, to ap
pease the slave God of the American Union.
A man, guilty of no crime, and charged with
none, has been seized at the point of the
bayonet, and doomed to a lot more terrible
than death. From the heights of freedom,
he has been hurled into the depths of slavery
to gratify three of the most infernal propensi
ties of man’s malicious heart pride, avarice
and revenge. Yes! we say ret'enge blood
thirsty, murderous revenge. Had not this
been the actuating motive, the victim might
have been ransomed. Money could have sat-'
isfied avarice success might have soothed
wounded pride nothing can appease a slave
holder’s revenge, but the torn back, and warm
blood of his helpless victim.
Thomas is to be made an example of; to
deter slaves from escaping the hateful house
of bondage. He is to be tortured for the
amusement of his tormentois and to strike
terror to the hearts of his trembling compan
ions in bondage. It is Boston,- civilized, re
fined, Christian and humane Boston, that has
furnished this sacrifice Great God wiL
thou not visit for these things. Wilt thou
'not be avenged on such a nation as this?
Amid the deep distress and anguish which
this sad occunence has brought us, there are
points of consolation connected with it, which.,
while they do not help the man now on the
jiu slavery, serve to mitigate the
disheartening effect of his surrender. He
was carried off to slavery, yet not with ease.
He was overcome; yet not without a strug
gle, both on his own part, and on the part of
his friends. As soon as he found himself m
the hands of a legalized kidnapper, he drew
out hia knife, and stabbed the villain, al
though not fatally. Overcome by superior
force, he was imprisoned in the Court-House,
to prevent a rescue on’the part of his friends.
The temple of justice, was literally surrounded
by chains and bayonets.
The horrid men-hunters only escaped a
deserved death by the precaution oi never
allowing themselves io walk forth in broad
day-light unprotected by an armed police, and
the government, (strong and mighty as it is,)
did not even venture to confront the burning
indignation of the travelling public of New
England, by taking the innocent man in fet
ters, by the usual travelling conveyances
through the land but, under cover of night,
(like a band of piiatea on the coast of Africa,)
they hurried their victim oil to the lonely sea;
sunounded by hired ruffians armed to the
teeth, and lest day-light should find them in
the haibor of Boston, they were towed away
from the sight of humanity, by a steamer pio
vided for the purpose.
These, and many other circumstances,
which we have not space to natrate, more than
slightly relieve the dark transaction of its dis
heartening effect upon those who had fondly
hoped that Boston, at least, would escape the
damning infamy of returning a man to sla
very, under the horrible provisions of the new
Fugitive Slave Law.
For our part, shocked and sorrow stricken
as we are at the recapture of Thomas
Simms, we can confess to no surprise nor
disappointment at this result. From the
first, we believed, (and we declared that be
lief, even when the Fugitive- Slave Bill was
first intioduced into the Senate by Mr. Ma
son of Virginia,) that the law, if once en
acted, would never want villains to execute
it. If we are surprised at alt, it is that so
strong a demonstration was made in Boston
against its execution. It is gratifying to be
lieve that nothing but the utter fruitlesness of
any attempt to rescue Thomas Simms pre
vented bis friends from rushing through the
bristliug bayonets of his captors, to liberate
him.
The government, however, had their plans
too well adjusted to make any such onset
successful. The sole hope that we have of
defeating the execution of the Fugitive Slave
Law, (while it remains a law,) is grounded
in the belief that there are a few fugitives still
remaining to be recaptuied whose regard for
their own lives and the lives of others, wilj
not be bo strong as to hinder their shooting
dead any legalized robber who shall lay hand
upon them.
The work, to be done successfully, must be
done instantly there must be no parleying.
As soon as a man knows that there is a war
rant out for him, he should place himself with
in his castle, and perish in his own defence, it
need be. In these troublous times, no colored
man should be without arms in his house, if
not upon his person. The having of weapons
is of some consequence, and will inspire the
.disposition to use them when the time comes.
IA law that cannot be executed but by expo
sing the officers authorized to execute it to
deadly peril, cannot long stand.—r. u.
ID 3 We have the pleasure to lav befoie
our readers another interesting letter from W.
Wells Brown. We rejoice to find our friend
still persevering in the pursuit of knowledge,
and slill more do we rejoice to find such
maiked evidence of his tapid progress as his
several letters afford. But a few years ago,
he was a despised, degraded, whip-scarred
slave, knowing nothing of letters and now
we find him writing accounts of his travels in
a distant land, of which a man reared under
the most favorable educational advantages
might be proud. Would to God that the
noble example of William Wells Brown were
more widely copied among tbose who escape
from slavery. His noble aim, his untiring
industry, hia unquenchable zeal, and his
manly fortitude under afflicting trials, are
worthy of all imitation. We have many pri
vate assurances from England of the value of
Mr. Brown’s labors in the cause of freedom
and humanity, and are most happy to find
that the weapons which have been used here
for his destruction, have not prevailed there.—
r. n.
IT3* The rescue trials in Boston are to com
mence on Tuesday, April 39th. The follow
ing persona have been arraigned Jas. Scott,
Joseph K. Hayes, Elizur Wright, Robert
Morns, Thomas P. Smith, John F. Colburn,
Lewis Hayden.
Music for the Insane. —The Nightengale
Minstrels, who are soon to mil this city,
recently entertained the inmates of the Utica
Insane Asylum with one ot their concerts
At the close, a vote of thanks was passed
by the large audience of patients, and an em
broidered cap presented to ‘‘Miss Fanny,”
the lady vocalist of the troupe.
Anti-Slavery Meeting.
On Monday evening, aa already announced,
our Anti-Slavery Meeting, for the week
commenced.
The Rev. Dr. Mills having opened the
meeting with prayer.
The Rev, Mr. May said,
Ladies and Gentlemen of Toronto:—My
position on this platform may seem, at firal
sight, an awkward, perhaps an unbecoming
one. 1 stand here, in the presence of the
people of another nation, to speak of the
great unrighteousness of my own and to
aak of you assistance to overthrow one of
the institutions of my country. But I am a
minister of the Christian Religion and I
presume that all whom I have the pleasure
to see before me profess, and feel respect
for the doctrines, commandments, example of
Jesus Christ. You will not, I trust, deny his
authority. He teaches us that humanity is more
to be regarded than|no/iona/»/y. Indeed, in
fidels have cast it at him as a reproach, that
he does not inculcate patriotism. ’Tis tiue
his commandment is not thou shalt love thy
countryman better than any one else, but
thou shalt love every man—thy neighbor,
as thyself. When asked, “who is my neigh
bur,” he points the Jewish inquirer to a Sa
maritan, a man belonging to a nation of all
others abhorient to the Jews. Thus the
anointed of God, the Savior of the world,
ptonounces his condemnation of all reserve
jimt aliamtiaii al f.U——"FITCH, OtTUUIC ol their
national or religious differences. Surely then,
there should be none of this alienation or re
serve between us, Englishmen and Ameri
cans, who like kindred drops can so easily
mingle into one. There should be no reserve
between us, who have the same ancestry,
who speak the same language, read the same
books, have the same Bible, worship the
same God. Especially between us, Canadians
and Americans, should there be no reserve
on a subject affecting our common humanity,
and our common inheritance in the westein
world. We who have joint possession ol
tho same Continent, who live in juxtaposition
—separated from each only by an invisible
line drawn upon the ever-moving waters;
we who use hourly the same river and lakes as
a common thoroughfare, and are daily crossing
and recrossing them, in the ttansaclions of
business and the interchanges of social life.
(Cheers.) We surely ought to be free, frank,
faithful and friendly in the the expression of
our opinions, on a subject regarding the in
alienable rights ot man and should be ex
pected to co-operate heartily for the common
good of humanity. We may live as long as
we please under separate Governments but
we cannot please to have entirely separate in
terests, nor separate our interests, if we should
please. The new postage arrangements are
mutually convenient to you, and to us.
(Cheers.) If the Welland Canal shall be
closed to us, we alone shall not be the suf
ferers. (Cheers.) Reciprocal free trade is
as desirable to you Canadians, as it is to us
Americans. And if our infernal Fugitive
Slave Law shall be enforced, your shores
will be inundated by penniless men, women
and children, who must fly to you for pro
tection and for bread. Nor can you prevent
their coming nor can you refuse to take the
strangers in, unless you choose rather to de
ny Christ, to repudiate your humanity, and
throw open these fair realms of the British
Queen, to be also the hunting ground of
Southern Isave-catchers. (Hear hear.)
Canadians, you cannot if your would avoid
being implicated with us, either in opposing,
or else in favoring the fugitive slave law.
Choose then this day whom you will serve,
God or the Devil. Already has the proposal
been made, that you should strike hands with
our slaveholding oligarchy. A recent To
ronto paper stales that it has “recived a letter
from Chatham, complaining that the coun
try ia that vicinity is being inundated with
negroes from the United States,” and mak
ing the following significant suggestion,
“might not a further influx of negroes be
prevented, and reciprocal free trade be obtained
by our agreeing to give up fugitive slaves l
Undoubtedly the good that writer desires
might be easily obtained, undoubtedly the
evil which that writer deprecates might be
averted, on the conditions named but are you
ready to comply with those conditions 1 Hear
me, ye men, ye Britons, ye Christians of
Canada! are you ready to agree, that you will
give up fugitives from slavery? No. Are
you ready to renounce the most glorious
distinction of your mother land T to say that
yours shall not be like English soil No.
That slaves may breathe in Canada; that though
they touch your country, their shackles shall
not fall? No! no! Are you ready thus to
renounce the glory of Englishmen to tarnish
the fair fame of Britain’s Queen to disown
your allegiance to the noblest principle of your
Royal Government? No! no! That would
be a separation from the British Empire to be
indeed deplored that would be annexation
to the United Siates with a vengeance—yes,
with the vengeance of insulted Heaven! But
it is for you to choose—Christ or Belial!
the freedom of England or the despotism of
America. (Hear, heat.)
i There must be some, perhaps many, in this
Province ready for the bargain, diaboli
cal though it be. Newspapers are pretty
good thermometers of the public warmth or
coldness. Editors ‘do not often advocate whal
they know will be offensive to their patrons,
Already, then, are you contaminated by yout
social, ecclesiastical and commercial inter
course with my country. Hear how an Ame
rican Editor comments upon the piopoeet
annexation of Canada to the slaveholding in
teresu of the United States. “So it seemi
after all,” says the Rochester Republican o
Apri![3d, “that these boasted British lover, o
liberty, equality and philanthropy, are read]
to be exchanged for trade in cotton and breai
stuffs.” “The white population of Canada
he continues, “will soon become aware o
their theoretical philanhropy, when they fim
themselves likely to be equalled or outnum
bered by a race, whose nature, habits anc
character are so little congenial to their own
Their loye of the negro will vanish, with tha
distance, which gives enchantment to th<
view.”
la it not time for you Canadians, to con
aider your danger and your duty The lep
rosy of slavery ia seen to be among you. I
will spread throughout your body politic, i
timely measures be not taken to eradicate it
But say you, the Abolitionists of Americt
have come here, and aak us to take part wit)
them in overthrowing a “peculiar institution’
of their country. That ia true; And tbs
slaveholders, or thtir emissaries, cotne here
and demand that you shall help them to up
hold that “peculiarinstitution.” Now, which
will you do? Yosr interference is invoked,
on the one hand as well as on the other. You
cannot long remain passive and neutral.
Choose, yos must this day, or on day,
not far distant. A nd can it be a matter of
indifference to you, on which side you throw
your mflumce* with Which party you co
operate? Will it be equally well, think you,
in the sight of God, whether you decide in
favor of the oppressor or in favor of the op
pressed? Will it be equally honorable to
your humanity and your religion, whether
you insist that your country shall still, and
forever, be the refoge of the fugitive or the
hunting ground ot his pursuer? Answer this
question now—for you are more likely to
answer it as you ought to day, than you will
be if you tamper with it and parley about it
a year. (Hear, h«W.)
Slavery is a monster of so frightful mien,
That to He hated, needs but to be seen.
Yet seentoo oft, familiar with her face,
We first endure, then pity, then embrace.
So it has been with us, on the other side
of the nairow firth” that divides us. So it
will be wife you: for ye r are men of like
passions, of like infirmities with ourselves.
Our northern political parlies have made one
compromise after another with the. slave
power, until at last they have agreed, that
—o strait tjecornt- tnimers Ol men—aye, blood
hounds, if our masters please. They have
effected their devilish purpose, proffering us
certain advantages, in return for our subser.
viency. And they now are plying you with
the aame tempting bribea. Be not too sure
that you are proof against them. You have
much to do with New York merchants, and
they have pined hands with slaveholders.
Some time ago, while I was in attendance
upon a meetng of the American Anti-Slavery
Society in New York, a prominent merchant
of that city slid to me, I will not question
the good inteitions sf you abolitionists sla
very is a goat evil, and the principles you
announce imf all be abstractly right enough
but, sir, we diall not allow you abolitionisls
to succeed in your undertaking. Why, there
are millions <f dollars that are due to the
merchants of New York from southern men,
our security br the payment of which rests
ultimately t|*>n mortgages on slaves.”
(Shame, shane.) Well sir,” was my re
ply, if that Hands in the way, we shall not
care if you losi it all. You deserve to lose
it all, for so implicating yourselves with the
oppressors ot men.” (Applause.) Never
theless, this has been, and is a serious bar
rier to the progress of our cause.
It is obvious, that a reciprocal free trade
would be even more advantageous to you than
to us, and therefore you were the first to
propose bui it never will be allowed, much
as you and ail iku people on our frontier de
sire u. so long as the slavehoMing power has
the ascendancy in our Republic unless you
will come to taeir terms, and agree to give
up their fugiti*e slaves.” You cannot foresee
how soon, nor how far, they will bring you to
acquiesce, unless you now set your face as a
flint against tie base proposal. With yon,
then, now is the accepted time,” now is
the day of your salvation” from this great ini
quity. Now declare, and let the sentiment
go forth throughout the Province, that free
trade or no trade with America, the foot of the
man-hunter shall lever track our soil! (Im
mense applause.)
Time was—we can look back and and see
—when we might with comparative ease have
settled the question of slavery, in favor of hu
manity. Twelve years after the United
States had confederated they formed our pres
ent Constitution. There our fathers might
have insisted on some provision for the aboli
tion of slavery. The struggle with two or
three of the Southern States might have been
severe, but it could not have lasted long, for
a more perfect Union” was essential to the
well-being of them all. But the northern
members consented to a compromise, implied
if not expressed; and through that loop hole
all our subsequent troubles have crept in. In
1803, the vas’ territory of Louisiana was pur*
chased, and annexed, without any proviso
against the perpetuity of slavery.
In 1819, the great controversy arose on the
admission of Mwsouii but it resulted in the
fatal compromise proposed and carried by the
influence of H«nry Clay. Let him have the
glory and the shame! Then followed at al
most regular intervals, successive steps down
ward, into that depth of perdition, where we
are now walfiwing. The war with the
Florida Indians* because they harbored runa
way slaves, wal carried on at great expense
for several years, and was brought to such a
close as the slaveholders desired, in 1835.
The annexation of Texas was next perpe
trated. That brought on the war and con
quest of Mexico. And the climax of our ini
quity was capped by the enactment of the
Fugitive Slave Law. The very men, who
have been active in proci ring the passage of
that most wickrsd Bill—and are now exerting
themselves, without sparing of time or money
to enforce its requirements upon us—some of
those very men were foremost in their opposi*
tion to the admission of Missouri as a Slave
State, and to the annexation of Texas. Yes,
Daniel Webster, who was the leader of our
anti-slavery host in 1819, did more than any
other man to procure the enactment of the Fu
gitive Slave. Law in 1850, and is as much en
titled to the gloty of that act, as Henry Clay
is to the honor of being the father of the Mis
souri Compromise. Learn from our sad ex
perience, to withstand the beginning of evil
(Hear, hear.) If you yield now to the de
mands of the sla\eholders’ power; if you
make any corapromiae of the right; if, for
the sake of free trade and a more piofitable
commercial intercourse with America, you
consent to exclude the fugitives from youi
•holes, there is no depth in this iniquity intc
which you may not fall, as we have done. In
deed this very first step, which you are called
upon to take, will be into the lowest deep
For if you consent to send back the fugilivf
into the hell of American slavery, I know noi
what else you will need to do, to make yot
as bad as we have become. (Hear, hear
hear.)
And if you do not consent to this, you raaj
be,'as the writer from Chatham apprehends
you may be overrun by the poor victims oi
our Republican Despotism- Thousands whe
have been livißg in security iu the free States,
are now turning their eyes to Canals, as the
only place of refuge. It is not unlikely that
they may come io upon you in each numbers
that, with all your hospitality, you cannot en
teitain them with all your abundance, you
cannot supply their wants; with all your un
cultivated lands, you cannot find them employ
ment.
It behooves you, then, now to unite—indeed,
it is a matter of necessity, that you should
unite with the Anti-Slavery men and women
of America, in withstar.ding the operation of
a I aw, and the institution from which it ema
nates, that threatens you with an inundation
of the poor and the needy, for whom you can
not provide—-or else will persuade you to
foreswear your anli-s avery principles re
nounce your humanity deny your Savior;
and defy the Almighty. (Hear, hear.) Oh
Canadians let me entieat you to stand firm
in the trial hour. Let it be your pride and
joy that you are Englishmen—the subjects ol
a government, that will not tolerate slavery.
Slaves cannot breathe in England their lungs
Receive your air, that moment, they re free;
Tliey touch your country *®d th e 'r shackles (all.
Tliat’s noble ami bespeaks a nation proud
And jealous of the blessing. Spread it then,
And let it circulate through every vein
Of all your Empire—that where Britain’s power
Is felt, maukind may feel her mercy too.”
Dut some of you, Canadians, 1 fear, have
learnt so much of the pro-slavery logic of my
countrymen, that you are ready to say lo me,
Ah, your American Union was based and it
now stands upon compromise, fidelity to
which demand* y»u» *k»*
cursed law. Y T ou have entered into the com
pact, and you are bound to keep it. Come
not here then, and ask us to help you to do,
what you yourselves ought not to do.” Are
you satisfied of the soundness of the summary
reasoning which is supposed to force upon us
this hoirible conclusion 1 Do you believe,
that men can be bound by any agreement
they may make lo do wrong 7 if men enter
into a bargain to rob their fellow-beings of all
their rights; to outrage all the feelings and
affections of humanity and lo trample upon
the laws of a just God, are they not under
a higher obligation to break them, than to
keep the compact? Surely so—unless man
has a right, and power withal to dethrone the
Almighty. Much less, then,can the men of
our generation make a covenant with death
and an agreement with hell,” and impose
upon their posterity the obligations to fulfil it.
But I affirm the fathers of our Republic
never meant to perpetuate slayery. The lan
guage of the Constitution does not require
such an interpretation, though 1 confess with
shame it lias generally received that interpre
tation. Those who heard me last evening,
were informed what out fathers did, and with
what expectation they did it. Far be from
them the suspicion of having intended to make
our great Republic the most shameless des
potism in the middle of the 19th century
The disastrous consequences of the conces
sions to slavery, which they did make, are a
solemnly emphatic admonition to all men
never even in appearance, to compromise the
right. (Hear, hear, hear.) I would that I
had time to give you the history of our Amer
ican Constitution but 1 am as impatient
as you are to hear my noble friend, Mr.
Thompson, whose surpassing eloquence ik
the delight of all who listen to it—and whose
unsparing, self-sacrificing devotion to all the
humanities of the age, entitle him to the ad
miration of the world, which he may not re
ceive while he lives, for men seldom find out
their greatest benefactors until they are dead,
but will secure to him that commendation from
the Eternal Judge, mote to be desired than
the praise of all mankind. "Well done, good
and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of
thy Lord.”
I will detain you therefore but a few min
utes more—only long enough to answer an
other objection to the action of the Abolition
ists, often urged on the other side of Ontario,
and which some people on this side of our
beautiful Lake regard as having weight.
It is said that if the Abolitionists had not in
terfered, the oppressions of the enslaved
would have been lighter, and his final deliv
erance nearer at hand. This statement is in
every particular untrue. I shall expose
its falsity only in one respect. The people of
the North —of the free Stales—did not move
in the cause of the enslaved, until their atten
tion was called to them by the slaveholders
themselves.
Iu 1817, was formed the Colonization So
ciety. Its earliest members were principally
slaveholders; its prominent officers were
slaveholders; its most zealous advocates were
slaveholders; Henry Clay of Kentucky was
among its founders, and soon became its
President, and continues to be so at this day.
That society—the real design of which was
to increase the security of slaveholding, by
removing to Africa the free people of color—
commended itself to the favor and co-operation
of the people of the Northern States, by re
presenting its tendencies to improve the con
dition of the enslaved, and ultimately emanci
pate them. Eloquent agents were sent
amongst us, who kept out ot sight the real
intentions of the Society, and plied us only
with such appeals as were adapted to wake
up our sympathies for the bondmen. The
horrors of slavery were depicted to us with
no neutral tints. The coloring was often as
high as the picture would bear. Thousands
who now are abolitionists were col jnizationists
first. I joined that Society at an early period,
and was the principal agont in the forma
tion of an auxiliaiy in the county where I re
sided.
William Lloyd Garrison, that man, whose
name is hereafter to be honored so long as a
page of American history is extant, became a*
member in 1825, and soon distinguished him
self by his ability and zeal in the cause. In
1829, he delivered before the Massachusetts
auxiliary, their annual address to as large an
audience as could convene in Park Street
Church, Boston, then one of the most capa
cious rooms in that City. He was admired
for his ability, loved for his enthusiastic be
nevolence, and urged forward in his labors for
the relief of our suffering countrymen, by
the hearty sympathy that was expressed by
those who hesid him. He was then the ed
itor of a paper in Vermont. Soon after he
was invited by Benjamin Lundy, (of whom 1
wish I bad time to speak,) a devoted, self sac
rificing man, to assist him in conducting an
anti-slavery paper, which he had succeeded
by his indomitable perseverance in establish
ing in Baltimore. The paper was called the
"Genius of Universal Emancipation.” A sou)
like Mr. Garrison’s could not withhold itself
from such a call of duty. He went to Balti
more, still a member of the Colonization So
ciety, tupponog.be was going to labor iu it*
behalf. Soon the productions of his fervid pen
attracted the attention, and disturbed ote re
poee of the slaveholding community about
him. When, in consequence of an article in
his paper exposing and condemning without
stint the conduct of a Northern Captain, who
had taken on board his ship a cargo of slaves
from the New Orleans inaiket, Mr. Gar
rison was arrested as a disturber of the peace
—tried, condemned, and thrown into prison,
till he should pay z heavy fine, wholly be
yond his means. There he remained thirteen
weeks, when Mr. Arthur Tappan. of New
York, one of the most bountiful givers our
country or the world ever knew, came for
ward, paid his fine of $lOOO, and sundry costs
amounting to hundreds more, snd set the no
ble prisoner free. his way back to Bos
ton, he was cordially greeted and encouraged
in his work by several gentlemen of New
York; and especially by Daniel Webster who
happened to be there. The Captain of the
steamboat, in which he took passage for
Providence, counted it an honor lo have the
young philanthropist on board, and remitted
his passage money. Thus encouraged and
strengthened, he came back to New England,
to report to the people what he had seen and
learnt of slavery, and of the piospect of its
leimination, during his brief sojourn at the
South. He had seen enough of slavery to
hariow up his soul from its deepest depths,
Ka founj awt, wUwy that flie Ovlvni£3*
tion Society, so far from tending to the sub
verson of that system of iniquity, was in
tended to ensure its more quiet continuance.
Now will you tell me he should have kept
back the communication of the feelings of his
gieat heart? That he ought to have sup
pressed what he had discovered to be the teal
design of that southern society, which was
drawing into its treasury large contributions
from the people of the free states, because it
had represented itself to them as the friend of
the slave 1 know you will not tell me so.
He did what I am sure you would have hitn
do. He went about trying to undeceive
those who had been beguiied into that pro
ject for the expatriation of the free colored
people and doing all he could to give a
right direction to the, labors of those who
really desired to break the yoke of opptes
sion and set the capiive fiee. On the Ist ot
January, 1831, he began the publication of
his Libeiator and then commenced that agi
tation of this question, which has spread
throughout out vast Republic and we trust,
in God, it will never cease until the enslaved
throughout the land are redeemed, disen
thralled, arid established in the enjoyment of
the rights and the exercise of the prerogatives
of freemen. (Cheers.)
You see, ihen, that we of the North are
not responsible for the commencement of
northern interference with southern slave
holding. We were invited by southern men,
urged by them to give our thoughts to the
claims of the coloied population of our land,
and to aid in the prosecution of a project,
which we were assured was to result in theii
entire emancipation. And our only fault is,
that we have looked into the matter farther
than the colonizationisls intended we should
have come to feel more sincerely and dpeply
for the slaves than they expected and have
determined in good faith to accomplish a
most desireable end, w hich they held out to
us as the great inducement to co-operate
with them in the prosecution of measures,
w hich we discovered would defer emancipa
tion to a day too far distant to be descried by
mortal foresight.
But here you will tell me, that the conflict
in my country has become so fearful, that a
dissolution of the Union seems to you inevit
able, if we abolitionists do not desist, give
back, and allow the slaveholders and their
abettors to have their own way. And what,
let. me ask, will be the consequences, if we do
throw down the weapons of our moral war
fare, and give up the millions that are en
slaved to hopeless bondage I will answer
the question for you. And I will answer it
in the words of another, one of the greatest
men of our country; the third President of our
Republic; the man who adopted the Declara
tion of our Independence. In his notes on
Virginia, President Jefferson said. The
day of Emancipation must come. If it come
not by the generous energies of our own
minds, it will come through the awful pro
cesses of St. Domingo, servile, and civil
war.” 1 quote the passage -from memory
Slavery cannot, will not be endured forever.
One hour of such oppression outweighs whole
ages of that from which our fathers levelled.
It must be abolished, by peaceful or by vio
lent means. The hour will come, and when
it comes, the Almighty has not the attribute
that can take part with us in such a conflict.
I tremble for my country, (he adds) I tremble
for my country, when I reflect that God is
just, and that his justice cannot sleep forever.”
The membeia of the American Anti-Sla
very Society, are the truest friends of our
Republic, the best friends of the Union, it it
can be made what its founders declared it
should be. Our oppressors indeed continu
ally tell us that the Union will be dissolved
if we insist upon the abolition pf slavery;
and we as continually reply, then let it be
dissolved. Fiat Justitia, Ruat ccelum.
Let justice be done, though the heavens
fall.” This was said ages ago—said by a
heathen, and it has always been quoted as
the highest expression of a lofty morality.
If a heathen then could say, let justice be
dona though the heavens fall, sorely an
American Christian should not fear to say,
let justice be done though the Union fall
nor should he be reproached for saying so,
except by Atheists and ungodly men, whose
reproach is praise. (Great cheering.)
Got Union now exists but in name no men
have thB freedom of our country, who are not
friends of slavery. Any one who is even sus
pected of leaning to the side of impartial lib
erty, is unsafe in one half of our Republic.
Aa well would it be fur the miner lo descend
into the etnh, into the midst of the fire
damp, without the wire gauze about his
lamp, as for a friend of humanity to go into
our slavebolding States, without a padlock on
hit lips. Many men have been lynched”
there, only on the suspicion of abolitionism.
What is that Union to us, which we cannot
enjoy only by tenouncing our humanity 1
Tbe opposers of oppression and unright
eousness are the only true friends of a Union
of our American States, for they alone would
extirpate that which has been, from the first,
working oui Dissolution. It is slavery that
has eaten out the cement of the American
Union and it is idle to talk of there being
any union between liberty and slavery. If
my country cannot stand but upon the necks
of three millions of our fellow-men, it ought
not to stand, it will not stand. 1 have often
•aid this on the other side of the Lake, and I
am not afraid to say it here. I have boon
called traitor for uttering the thought. The
only answer I can care to make to this accu
sation is, If it be treason lo bate and op
pose slavery, lam a traitor. I mean to be a
traitor to my country, if she can become the
ruthless tyrant, which a general obedience to
the fugitive slave law would make her.”
The Abolitionists, ’tis true, have under
taken to revolutionize America; and they
earnestly call on you to help them but it is
a revolution to be effected by moral means.
"Our principles lead us lo reject, and to entreat
the oppressed to reject the use of all car
nal weapons for deliverance from bondage
relying upon those which are spiritual, and
mighty through God ts the pulling down of the
strongholds of Satan.” We mean to oae
only the sword of truth. If ever we resort to
any other measures, it will be because we
have not faith and coutage enough to adhere
to our avowed principles. Hitherto all that
we have done in tbe cause oflibeity, has been
effected, by faithful exposures of the abomina
tions of our southern prison houses; earnest
expostulations with all who are making mer
chandize of men, and treating them as if they
were domesticated brutes; unsparing rebukes
of those at the north who, because of their
mercantile and ecclesiastical connections with
the south, are apologizing for slaveholders,
upholding them in their wickedness, misrep
resenting and persecuting the men who are
laboring only to bring them to repentance
affectionate entreaties to those who unin
tentionally and perhaps unconsciously are
strengthening the hands of oppressors and
solemn warnings to all who directly or indi
rectly ate giving support to slavery, which
outrages humanity, and sets God at defiance.
If it is with these weapons we have fought
hitherto have roused the slumbering
pricked the consciences of many who had sup
posed themselves to be among the righteous
routed hosts of the apologists ar,d retainers
of slaveholders goaded to nud.ness the un
principled. who were at ease iu their ill-gotten
possessions brought the political parties into
new alliances—now with us—now with each
other, so that, few know where they belong
and tbeir strength is weakened by divisions,
and by distrust of their own we have so
battered the ecclesiastical bulwarks, behind
which slaveholders had entrenched themselves
that these enemies of man feel no longer se
cure there, where used to be their strong
hold lastly, we have assailed the legislatures
of our states, and the Congress of the Union,
making the halls of each the fields of many a
hard-fought battle. (Cheers,) So that now
the whole power of our nation is combined*
against us, and in the madness of those who
are destined to destruction, the leaders of the
public policy have committed themselves to
a measure —the Fugitive Slave Law—which
must bring to our aid the moral indignation e?
the civilized world. (Great applause.)
These have been the weapons of our war
fare, and these ate some of the effects wa
have already produced. Surely we may in
vite you, Canadians, to take part with us iiw
such a warfare even against our own country
and you may accept our invitation and dt#
great execution in the service, without show
ing yourselves to be enemies, but friends ra
ther, of America—"He loves my country
who would make her free.”
We have not come here to ask your red
coats to assist us. Let them stay where they
are and our prayer shall ever be, that they
may never be called to any more actual ser
vice, than to parade your streets, and keep up
the show of protection. (Hear hear.)
We want your black coats to help U 8 ere
summon them to our aid, we call U p on them
all the more earnestly because so many ol the
ministers of religion in out country have de
serted the standard of the cross—have sbowff
themselves traitors to Christ. Most of the
pulpits in America have been, and still are,
silent in the cause of the slave. Many of
them have turned their artillery against it.
Few have done the execution, that they mighti
and ought to have done. O.then, ministers of
Christ in|Canada, help us Pray for the slave;
that God would raise up many to espouse
his cause. Preach in his behalf—expose the
enormity of the wrong that he suffers, who
is held and treated as a piece of property
and plead for his deliverance. Show your
hearers what they may, and ought to do, foe
those who are in bonds any whete, especially
for those in a country allied to you by so
many ties, social and ecclesiastial, and placed
so near, that your interests and ouro are al
most one.
You, who do not occupy the pulpit, may
often send or carry the truth on this subject,
where the preacher does not go. in your
continual intercourse with the people of my
country, in matters of business or pleasure,
you may often have opportunities lo speak
with effect in hehalf of liberty and right. Im
prove those opportunities, and you will be
helping to form that public sentiment, whicho
is the poweT that rules America.
You who wield the pen for the newspapers
of Canada, give to it a point and directive,
that it shall reach, what other weapor. 3 0 f
state cannot touch, the consciences of rr,y coun
trymen. Many of my countrymen once were
yours. But alas they left their anti-slavery
zeal behind them. O, then, we pray you, do
what you may to revive tbeir former faith in
the right—their former love of the slave. Let
every mail that leaves your shores bear some
message of admonition, or remonstrance, to
the many you must know in America, and
who will beed your words as tbe counsels
of old friends. Especially let your churches
earnestly, solemnly, call on kindred churches
in our land to be obedient unto Him, whom
they profeta to revere as their Great Head.
(Hear, bear.)
This is the aid we ask from you. Wo
have a right to demand it. It ia your duty
to give it. Let us have a regiment, aye a
smaller company of such helpers, and they
•hall do ua better service than tbe mightiest
atony that Britannia wields. Yes, give us a
goodly company of your black coats, and
blue coats, any other than your red coats—
reinforced by your petticoats.
I say not this to raise a smile for 1 wish
earnestly, solemnly to call on tbe women of
Canada to help ua. They can give Ds mogg,
efficient aid. What women have dooe else
where, women may do Uere. They haw
often been the btat in a moral woe.fire. Woman w» s ihe most fearless fiiend
of the Captain of c Tir Salvation.
“.ihe, wlf le Apo*t ie* shrank,
Could danger brave;
Last at It is cross and
EarlieS at hia grave.”
The women of ireat Britain did more even
than the men to ac complish the overthrow of
West India Slav ery. They held up ibeir
hands, and encouri ged the heart of George
Thompson, an he went through the United
Kingdoms like a t« rch of fire, kindling evety
where the hearti *of the benevolent into a
flame of anti-slaver y zeal. (Cheera.) Would
that I could ape ak as I feel of the women of
England, Wales, I reland, and more especially
of Scotland—and tell of what they did for
the emancipation of West India slaves—and
what they have dot ie. and are doing for the
overthrow of Amer ican Slavery. (Cheers.)
Women of Canai la, come now, and do like
wise It was a w oman l have somewhere
tead or heard, who first aroused the immortal
Wilberforce to lake upon himself the burden
of the enslaved. It was a woman—Elizabeth
Hey rick, who first announced the doctrine ol
“immediate, not g radual emancipation; the
duty uf the master, the right of the slave.”
And the women iu our country have done
mote in this cause, than any of us men, it we
except “a precious few.”
Women of Caul ida, I summon you to our
aid. Pray for yc* r and my feilow beings—
millions of them— who ate in cruel bondage,
across these narr ow waters. Talk on this
subject. Pour in! :o the ear of every Ameri
can, who cornea within the reach of your
voices, pour in entreaties, remonstrance.
Kaep up a tenewi ng fire of epistolary corres
pondence, that ah; ill tell in our behalf. Why
should not every 'anti-slavery woman, in Cana*
da, write at least one letter a week, or one a
month, to some o: ne on the other shore 7 Oh,
this would do gt eat execution.
Sing anti-slavt ry songs, learn those which
our noble poets have written or write better
ones yourselves, and lend them the charms ol
your voices in lb e cadences of music.
Mr. May clow ?d with a story of a woman
who, by singing the right tune in the “right
time,” soon r educed to harmony a whole
comgegation of discordant voices—and eat
down in the m idst of great applause.
Letter fri >in William W. Brown,
Adxi phi Hotel, York, March 2G.
Df ar Dour .lass I closed my last letter
in the ancient town of Melrose, on the banks
of the Tweed and within a stone’s throw of
the celebrate d ruins from which the town
derives its nat ne. The valley in which Mel
rose is situat ed, and the surrounding hills,
together wilt the Monastery, have so often
been made t theme for the Scottish bards,
that this has become the most interesting part
of Scotland. Of the many gifted writers who
have taken u; p the pen, none have done more
to bring the I hldon Hills and Melrose Abbey
into note, tht .n the author of Waverly. But
one cannot r jad his writings without a regret
that he shou Id have so woven fact and fiction
together, th: it it is almost impossible to dis
criminate bv tween the one and the other.
We arriv ed at Melrose in the evening, and
proceeded to the chapel where our meeting
was to bfe held, and where our friends, the
Crafts, were warmly greeted. On reluming
Irom the meeting, we passed close by the
ruins of Melrose, and, very fortunately, it
was a moonlight night. There is considerable
difference of opinion among the inhabitants of
the place as rega.'ds the best time to view the
Abbey. The autho* of ‘he Lay of the
Last Minstrel,” says]
If thou wouldst view fair' Melrose aright,
(jo visit it by Lite pale mooi.’bgbt:
For the gay beams of lighiaoi.’te day
Gild but to flout the ruins gray.”
In consequence of this admonition, I was
informed that many persons remain in town
to see the ruins by moonlight. Awaje that
the moon did not send its rays upon the old
•building every night in the year, 1 asked the
keeper what he did on dark nights. He re
tplied that he had a large lantern, which he
jput upon the end of a long pole, and with
this lie succeeded in lighting up the ruins.—
This good man labored hard to convince ne
that his invention was nearly if not quite as
good as natuie’s own moon. But having no
.need of an application of his invention to the
Abbey, 1 had no opportunity of judging of
its effect. I thought, however, that he had
made a moon to some purpose, when he in
forme 1 me that some nights, with his pole
and lantern, he earned his fout or five shil
lings. Not being content vith a view by
moonlight alone,” 1 was up the next morn
ing before the sun, and paid my respects to
.the Abbey. I was too early for the keeper,
and he handed me the key through the win
dow, and 1 entered the rooms alone. It is
one labyrinth of gigantic arches and dilapi
dated halls, the ivy growing and clinging
wherever it can fasten its roots, and the w hole
as fine a picture of decay as imagination
could create. This was the favorite resort of
Sir Walter Scott, and furnished him much
matter for the Lay of the Last Minstiel.”
He could not have selected a more fitting
place for solilaty thought than this ancient
abode of monks and priests. In passing
through the cloisters, I could but remark the
carvings of leaves and flowers, wrought in
atone in the most exquisite manner, looking
as fiesh as if they were just from the hands
af the aitist. The lapse of centuries seems
not to have made any impression upon them
or changed their appearance in the least. 1
sat down among the ruins of the Abbey.—
The gtound about was piled up with magnifi
cent fragments of stone, representing various
texts of scripture, and the quaint ideas of the
priests and monks of that age. Scene after
acene swept through my fancy as 1 looked
upon the surrounding objects. I could almost
imagine 1 saw the bearded monks going from
hall to hall, and from cell to cel). In visiting
these dark cells, the mind becomes oppressed
by a sense of the utter helplessness of the
victim who once passed over the threshhold
and entered one of these religious prisons.—
There was no help or hope hut in the will
that ordered their fate. How painful it is to
gaze upon those walls, and to think how
many tears have been shed by their inmstes,
when this old Monastery was in its glory. 1
Hi ‘ended to the top of the ruin by a circuitous
-stairv v *y» "hose stone steps were worn deep
from a.*. ma,, y of whom, like myself, had
Titiieg tlx. "at ‘o gratify a curiosity. From the
lop of the .\bbey, I bad a splendid view of
the avjnour.img hills and the beautiful valley
through wbieh the Gaia Water and
Tweed. This is unquestionably the most
splendid specimen of Gothic architectural ruin
in Scotlaud. But any description of mine
eonveys but a poor idea to the fancy. Tj be
realized, it must be seen.
During the day, we paid a visit to Abbots
ford, the splendid mansion of the late Sir
Walter Scott, Bart. This beautiful seat is
situated on the banks of the Tweed, just be
low its junction with the Gala Water. It is
a drenry looking spot, and the house from the
opposite side of the river has the appearance
of a small, low castle. In a single day’s ride
through England, one may see half a dozen
cottages larger than Abbotsford House. I
was much disappointed in finding the premises
undergoing repairs and alterations, and that
all the trees between the house and the river
had been cut down. This is to be regretted
the more, bectuse they were planted, nearly
every one of them, by the same hand that
waved its wand of enchantment over the
world. The fountain had been removed from
where it had been placed by the hands of the
poet, to the centre of the yard and even a
small stone that had been placed over the fa
vorite dog Peroy,” had been taken up and
thrown among some loose stone. One visits
Abbotsford because of the genius of the man
that once presided over it. Everything
connected with the great poet is of interest to
his tdmireis, and anything altered or removed,
tends to diminish that interest. We entered
the house, and weie conducted through the
great hall, which is hung all round with mas
sive armor of all descriptions, and other me
morials of ancient times. The floor is of
white and black marble. In passing through
the hall, we entered a narrow arched room,
stretching quite across the building, having a
window at each end. This little or rather
nairow room is filled with all kinds of armor,
which is arranged with great taste. We
weie next shown into the dining-room, whose
roof is of black oak, richly carved. In this
room is a painting of the head'of Queen
Mary, in a charger, taken the day after tbs
execution. Many other interesting portraits
grace the walla of this room. But by far tho
finest apartment in the building is the drawing
room, with a lofty ceiling, and furnished with
antique ebony furnituie. After passing thro’
the library, with its twenty thousand volumes,
we found ourselves in the study, and I sai
down in the same chair where once sal the
poet, while before me was the table upon
which was written the Lady of the Lake,*’
Waverly,” and other productions of this
gifted writer. The clothes last worn by th*.
poet were shown to us. There was the
broad skirted blue coat, with its large buttons,
the plaid trousers, the heavy shoes, the black
vest and white hat. These were all in a glass
case, and all looked the poet and novelist.—
But the inside of the buildings had undergone
alterations as well as the outside. In passing
through the library, we saw a grand-daughter
of the poet. She was from London, and was
only on a visit of a few days. She looked
pale and dejected, and seemed as if she
longed to leave this secluded spot and return
to the metropolis. She looked for all the
world like a hot-house plant. I don’t think
the Scotch could do better than to purchase
Abbotsford, while it has some imprint of
the great magician, and secure its preser
vation, for I am sure that, a hundred years
hence, no place will be more frequently visited
in Scotland than the home of the late Sir
Walter Scott. After saunteting three hours
about the premises, I left, but not without
feeling that I had been well paid for my
trouble in visiting Abbotsford.
In the afternoon of the same day, in com
pany wilh the Crafts, 1 took a drive to Dry
burgh Abbey. It is a ruin of little interest,
except as its being the burial place of Scott.
The poet lies buried in St. Mary’s Aisle.—
His grave is in the left transept of the cross,
j and close to where the high altar formerly
I stood. Sir Walter Scott chose his own
grave, and he could not have selected a sun-'
nier spot if he had roamed the wide world
over. A shaded window breaks the sun as it
falls upon his grave. The ivy is creeping
and clinging wherever it can, as if it would
shelter tho poet’s grave ftom the weather.—
The author lies between his wife and eldest
son, and there is only room euough for one
grave more, and the son’s wife has the choice
of being buried here.
The four o’clock train took us to Harwick;
and after a pleasant visit in this place, and the
people registering their names against Amer
ican slavery, and the Fugitive Bill in particu
lar, we set out for Carlisle, paying through
the antique town of Long holm. After leav
ing the latter place, we had' to travel by
coach. But no matter how one travels here,
he travels at a more rapid rate than in Amer
ica. The distance from Longholme to Car
lisle, twenty miles, occupied only two and a
half hours in the journey. It was a cold day
and 1 had to ride on the outside, as the inside
had been taken up. We changed horses,
and took in and put out passengers with a
rapidity which seems almost incredible. The
road was as smooth as a mirrior.
We bid farewell to Scotland, as we reached
the little town ot Gretna Green. This town
being on the line between England and Scot
land, is noted as the place where a little
cross-eyed, red-faced blacksmith, by the name
of Priestly, first set up his own altar to Hy
men, and married all who came to him, with
out regard to rank or station, and at prices to
suit all. it was worth a ride through this
pait of the country, if for no other purpose
than to see the town where more clandestine
marriages have taken place than in any other
port in the world. A ride of eight or nine
miles brought us in sight of the Eden, wind
ing its way slowly through a beautiful valley,
with farms on either side, covered with sheep
and cattle. There are four very tpll chim
neys, sending forth dense columns of black
smoke, announcing to us that we were near
Carlisle. 1 was really glad of this, for
Ulysses was never more tiled of the shores of
llion than 1 of the top of that coach.
We remained over night at Carlisle, par
taking of the hospitality of the prince of
bakers, and left the next day for the Lakes,
wheie we bad a standing invitation to pay a
visit to a distinguished iterary lady. A cold
ride of about fifty miles brought os to the
foot of Lake Windermere, a beautiful aheet
of water, surrounded by mountains that
seemedrto vie with each other which should
approach nearest the sky. The msrgin of the
lake is carved out and built up into terrace
above terraee, until the slopes and windings
bt e lost ia the snow-capped pealu of the
mottotaine. It if not apprising that such
i men as Southey, Coleridge, Wordsworth and
others, resorted to this region for inspiration.
5 After a coach ride of five miles, (passing on
our journey the Dove’s Nest,” home of the
late Mrs. Heman3,) we were put down at the
door of the Salutation Hotel, Ambleside, and
r a few minutes after found ourselves under the
s roof of the authoress of Society in Amer
ica.” 1 know not how it is with others, but
for my own part, I always form an opinion of
an author whose writings I am at all familiar
with, or a statesman whose speeches I have
read. 1 had pictured in my own mind a tall,
stately-looking lady of about sixty years, as
the authoress of Travels in the East,” and
for once I was right, with the single excep
tion that I had added on too many years by
twelve. The evening was spent in talking
about the United States; snd William Craft
had to go through the narrative of his escape
from slavery. When I retired for the night,
I found it almost impossible to sleep. The
idea that I was under the roof of the author
es of the “Hour and the Man,” and that
was on the banks of the sweetest lake in
Great Britain, within half a mile of the resi
dence of the late aoet Wordsworth, drove sleep
from my pillow. But 1 must leave an account
ot my visit to the Lakes for a future letter.
When 1 look around and see the happiness
here, even among the poorer classes, and that
100 in a country where the soil is not at all to
be cotnpareu with our own, 1 mourn fur our
downtrodden countrymen, who are plundered,
oppressed, and made chattels of, to enable an
ostentatious aristocracy to vie with each other
in splendid extiavagance.
1 am holding meetings, in company with the
Ciafts, on the Fugitive Slave Law, and we
also hope to get up an interest against the
slaveholders who may make their appearance
at the great Exhibition. But of this, more in
my next. Until then, belive me to be
Yours, right truly,
WM. W. BROWN.
Horace Mann’s Speech.
We are indebted to lion. Horace Mann for
a copy of his speech on the Fugitive Slave
Law. delivered in the House, on February
28, ’5l. Thi following account of the pas
sage of the bill should be held in remem
brance
When several of those measures were
passed, and particularly when one of the
most obnoxious and criminal of them all was
Eassed— I mean the fugiiive slave bill—this
[ouse was not a deliberative body. Delibera
tion was silenced. Those who knew they
could not meet our arguments, choked their
utterance The previous question, which was
originally devised to curb the abuse of too
much debate, was perverted to stop all debate.
The floor was assigned to a known friend of
the bill, who after a brief speech in palliation
of its enormities, moved the previous question;
and thus we were silenced by force, instead of
being oveicome by argument. For, sir, J
aver, without fear of contradiction, that the
bill never could have become a law, had its
opponents been allowed to debate it, or to
propose amendments to it.”
The right to discuss the bill he claims on
this wise
1 feel none the less inclined to discuss
this question, because an order has gone forth
that it shall not be discus.*ed. Discussion
has been denounced as agitation, and then it
has been dictatori&lly proclaimed that “agita
tion must be put down.” Sir, humble as I
am, 1 submit to no such dictation, come from
what quarter or from what numbers it may.
If such a prohibition is intended to be laid
upon me personally, I repel it. If intended
to silence me as the representative of the
convictions and feelings of my constituents, I
repel it all the mote vehemently. In lhi3
Government it is not tolerable for any man,
however high, or for any body of men, how
ever large, to prescribe w hat subjects may
be agitated, and what may not be agitated.
Such prescription is at best but a species of
Lynch law against free speech. It is as hate
ful as any other form of that execrable code
and I do but express the common sentiment
of all generous minds, w hen I say that for
one I am all the more disposed to use my
privilege of speech, when imperious men, and
the sycophants of imperious men, attempt to
ban or constrain me. In Italy, the Pope de
cides what books may he read in Austria,
the Emperor decides what books may be writ
ten but we are more degraded that the sub
jects of Pontiff or Caisar, if we are to be told
what topics we may discuss.”
His notions of the citizen’s obligation to
obey this law may be gathered from tho con
clusion
In Hooker’s sublime description of Law
when understood in its generic sense, he
says:
Of Law theie can be no less acknowledged
than that her seat is the bosom of God, her
voice the harmony of the world all things in
heaven and earth do her homage, the very
least as feeling her care, and the greatest as
not exempted from her powets both angels
and men, and creatures, of what condition
soever, though each in different sort and man
ner, yet all with uniform consent, admiring
her as the Mother of their peace and joy.’
Now, sir, with these glorious attributes of
Law]” 1 say the fugitive slave law of the
last session possesses not one quality in com
mon, nor in similitude. To say that the seat
of such a law isin the “bosom of God” is the
intensest blasphemy. To say that it is the
harmony of the world,” is to declare that the
world is a spheie of übiquitous and omnipo
tent wrong, uncheckered by any thought of
justice, and devoid of any emotion of love.—
To say that all tilings in heaven do hom
age” to such a law, is to affirm of the realms
of light what is true only of the realms of
darkness. The least” do not “feel its care,”
but tremble and wail beneath its cruelty
while the greatest and the strongest are
exempt from its power;” for they made it
not for themselves but fot otheis. To no class
of “creatuies, rational or irrational, human
or divine, can u prove to be the Mother of
peace and joy but wherever it extends, and
as long as it exists, it w II continue to be an
overflowing Marah of bil'erness and strife.
As the great name of Hooker has been
profanely cried in behalf of this law, I will
close by quoting his distinction between those
laws of haman Governments which ought to
be obeyed, and those which ought not:
—which laws,” says he we must
obey, unleu there be reason shewed which may
necessarily enforce that the law or reason
or or God doth enjoin the contrary.”
The “Higher Law” —A Scrap of
History.
A vary remarkable a fair occurred in the
year 290. A legion of soldiers containing
0666, called the Theban Ltgion, were quar
tered in the East, awaiting the orders of their
Emperor to march against the rebels of
Burgundy. About this time the Emperor
ordered a general sacrifice to ba made, at
which the whole army were commanded to
be present and assist; at which time, also,
he commanded that all the soldieia should
bind themselves with an oath, to b« faithful
in him in the contemplated expedition, and
wonld personally aid him in the destruction
of the Gaelic Christiana, against whom he
held the greatest antipathies.
Shocked by tbs cruelty of these orders,
each individual of tho Theban Legion abso
lutely refused either to sacrifice or to taka the
oaths prescribed.
This so enraged the Emperor, that he
ordered every tenth imii in the legion to be
put to the sword, Those who remained after
this cruel order had beets executed, were still
inflexible, and a second order was given that
1 every tenth man of the remainder of the le
gion should be put to the sword. But this act
of cruelty made no more impression than the
first. The soldiers preserved their fortitude
and their principles, and under the counsel of
their officers, diew op a remonstrance to the
Emperot, in which they told him:
“We are your subjects and soldiers, but at
the same lima we are the subjects of a ‘Higher
Power,” and we cannot disobey the Almighty
Ruler. We receive our pay from you, but
we have received our existence from God.
Whenever your commands are not contra*
dictoiy to those of our common master, we
shall always be ready to obey them, as we
have been hitherto. But when the orders of
out Prince and those of the Almighty differ,
we must always obey the latter. Our arms
are devoted to the Emperor's use, and shall
be directed against his enemies, but we cannot
submit to stain our hands with the effusion of
•hrislian blood. And, how indeed could you,
0 Emperor, be sure of our allegiance, should
we violate our obligation to a Higher Power,
in whose service wo engaged before we en
tered your army. You commanded us to
search out and destroy the Christians. It is
not necessary to look further, for we are our
a Ives chriaiians, and we gloiy in the name.
We saw our companions die without a mur
mur, and thought them happy in being per
mitted to die for Christ. We will not lift our
hand against our Sovereign we had rather
die wrongfully, and preserve our innocence,
than incur the guilt of obeying our Sov
ereign’s command. Whatever you command
we are ready to auffer.”
Any one but a tyrant would have been
melted under such an’appeal. But the con
trary effect was He commanded
the whole legion be put ti- death, and even
sent a like order to Italy, in respect to a de
tachment which had been drafted from them.
The cruel order was executed on the 22d of
September, 286, by the other troops, who, by
command of the Emperor, fell upon them
unresisted, and cut them to pieces with their
swords.
Who will sav that they were not heroic
men, or that they did not well in obeying God
rathet than man !—Evening Journal.
Boston Slave Case.]
The excitement in Boston— 'the Fugitive Slave
Case—Simms taken bad to bondage.
Bomw, Aptil 12.
After the decision of Judge Woodbury
last night, that there was nc ground to inter
fere with the certificate of Mr. Cuitis remand
ing Sims, pieparations begaa to be made to
convey him back. The brr» Acora had been
hauled to the end of Long Whaif, having
been previously fitted up fot an extra number
of passengers.
During the night, Court House Square
was filled with a ciowd lo were collected
in knots discussing the matter and occasion
ally hooting at the officers. There were a
number of females among them. The pro
ceedings in and about the Court House were
closely watch'd by the abolitionists. At
about 3 o'clock detachments of the City
Watch to the number of 150 arrived, with
clubs and books, and were brought into the
neighborhood of Court square. The Police
force under Marshal Tukey arrived with
short-swords, assembled is the square, went
thtough some evolutions and finally formed
in a hollow square in front of the side en
trance to the Court House.
When all was ready word was given to the
U. S. Marshal and Simms wa3 brought down
and placed in the center of the square. He
appeared to be in good spirits his limbs be
ing free from irons or haedcuffs of any des
cription. The procession was led by the U.
S. Marshal and his Deputies, followed by the
armed police—they proceeded through Couit
and State st., and down Long Wharf, fol
by about one hundred Abolitionists among
whom was the Rev. Mr. Calver. Not the
least attempt at violence was made. Mr.
Calver and other persons in the crowd oc
casionally denounced the proceeding and
called fnr the thunderbolts of Heaven to be
poured down upon them.
When the ptocession reached the Wharf
the brig was found to be all ready, with the
steamer Hornest along side with her steam
up. Sims was taken immediately into the
cabin.
The Acorn bad two cannons on board to
protect her from any assault on the passage.
The word was given to let go the fastenings,
and she was soon under way. About thirty
police officers accompanied the vessel as fat
as the steamer went as a protection from offi
cers of this city, including U. S. Deputy
Matshals Savin and Byrne, accompanying the
Fugitive in the vessel to Savannah. Just as
the vessel was about to leave the wharf some
ot the crowd sang several hymns, such as
From Greenland's icy Mountains,” “Oh
There will be Mourning at the Judgment
Seat of Christ.” “Be thou, Oh God, ex
alted high.” &c.
A Serious Affair.—By an article in the
London Times, it appears that the British
Government is fully resolved to insist upon
such a fulfilment of its treaty as shall secure
the protection of its colored seamen in the
ports of the South, or upon the abrogation of
the treaty itself. The Times says, that
“Great Britain is absolutely committed to a
peremptory demand” for the rights of her
subjects. From present prospect, Messrs.
Fillmore and Webster have a new Charybdis
and Scyllato steer between, and Northern
dough-faces may have new proof of our con
cern with Slavery.
The passage below from the debates in the
French National Assembly, which we quote
from the Paris Correspondence of the Inde
pendent, shows that this question is not for
gotten by Framae, and in what light our
action is regarded by its statesmen.
“A present subject of negotiation between
the governments of England and the United
States, has been taken up in the Assembly.
In reply to an interrogatory from M. Schlei
cher, representative of Guadaloupe, as the
enrollment of men of color, General La Hitte,
the French Minister, replied “The position
of the French Republic has been changed by
the abolition of slavery, and permuted us to
speak with greater right. We have taken,
in regard to the United States, all possible
steps in order to surmount laws which M.
Schoelcher has styled, with reason, barbar
ous. Neither France nor England have been
able to persuade the government of the
United States to enter into the ways of civil
ization and humanity, which we will persevere
to march in, and to endeavor to make the
United States enter.” This speech was ac
cepted by the Assembly as a pledge to pur
sue, in union with England, a vigorous
policy in order to persuade the United States
to abolish scandalous and offensive preten
sions.”—-Penn. Freeman.
In Chains. —Are not the chains around the
Court House emblematical of our present po
sition? Chaim which even our judges are
obliged to pass under, and which serve to
keep respectable citizens (who have the right
to enter the courts, and perhaps have business
there) out, turned away, or rudely ques
tioned by insolent officials, who have no more
right to act than their prisoner but what are
these chains even to those which bind the
hearts and the consciences of so many of our
citizens, that they suffer chains bayonets, re
volvers, soldiers and police, to be used by this
gieat free government, and for what? to
crush hberty, to destroy the trial by jury and
the rights of all men at the dictation of a aet
of tyrants, who will only despise us and tram
ple upon us in pioportion as we succeed in
riveting our own obsins.
If these deeds, if these arms, if these chains,
which our citizens are ao ready to put on, do
not make as contemptible hi the slaveholder’
eyes, they are not the men vre take them to
be.—W.— Commonwealth.
Scsvili Dew*y hat got his Due. Rev.
Orville Dewey, D. D., has been appointed
chaplain in the navy—a fit reward for his pio
slavery speeches. —A 8. Bugle.
Decision of the Slave Covet, —At the
opening of the Court on Friday morning,
Commissioner Curtis delivered his oppinion,
sustaining the constitutionality of the Fugitive
Slave Act, and gianting a certificate to the
claimant, to take away hia “property.” The
prisoner was remanded to the custody of the
Marshal, to await the decision of Judge Wood
bury upon the writ of habeas corpus, at 3
o’clock.
Simms to be Sent Bace.— We learn that
the hounds obtained a final grasp upon their
prey yesterday. Alter the hearing yesterday
afternoon Judge Woodbury decided that the
U S. criminal process should take precedence
of tbe'State process, and Lunt, as we under
stand it, is left to choose hia own time to
bring SimMs to trial, which of course will not
be before he leaves the State. Accordingly
to day it may by expected that the Negro
Catchers will move through Boston streets to
consign a free man to the fetters and whips
of slavery—a deed of villany occomplished at
the expense of all Christian precepts, of all
manly and generous sentiments, of all princi
ples of civil liberty, of State laws, Gospel
laws, and laws decency. It will certainly
he an edifying sight. It will reflect such
honor on our State Judiciary, and such credit
tipon the cnurch which approves of it, and
cast such a halo of glory abnat Boston and
such a radiance upon the whig party !—Essix
County Freeman.
Daniel Webster.— flow different from
the course of Mr. Webster w»s that of the
younger Pitt, when he refused to accept a
hundred thousand pounds from the merchants
of London, poor and embarrassed as he was,
because he would not lay himself under pecu
niary obligation* to any one class of his fel
low-subjects! How different that of Mr.
Clay, who refused a similar offer from mer
chants of New York, when it was under
stood that his circumstances made his accept
ance of the Department of State under Mr,
Adams an imprudent measure! Though
deeply affected by the offer, he declined it, on
the ground that he could not consent, as a
public man, to stand in such a relation to any
portion of his fellow-citizens.—Wicked as
Vlr. Clay’-e assertion has been in the matter of
slavery, and heavy as will be the account he
will have to settle with posterity for the
crimes he has helped largely to entail upon
them, he must be allowed the credit of having
mainiained his own personal self-respect, and
understood what was due to his own public
character. In this respect, as in all others,
(except'forensic skill,) the Southern Slave
holder is entitled to take precedence of the
Northern Sycophant.— Edmund Quinsy.
Fugitive Slave Law.— The Lecture of
Frederick Douglass, previously announced to
be given in this place, for Friday evening
next, will be given in the Lutheran Church.
When we recollect that Mr. Douglass, only
12 years since, was a slave on a Southern
plantation, and now one of the most eloquent
speakers in the State on matters connected
with his favorite theme, all will concede to
him the merit of unsurpassed industry and of
possessing a high order of talent. The lecture
is to commence at 7 1-2 o’clock, admission
12 1-2 cents. He will doubtless have a full
house. Niagara Courier.
Tarring and Feathering. —At Yorkville
S. C., on the 16th, Jackson Avon* was taken
in custody, tarred and feathered, rode on a
tail, and ordered to leave the State, with an
intimation that if found within its borders
again he would be hung. Hie offence was a
disobedience to an order heretofore issued by
a committee of vigilance that he should leave
the Slate—some abolition declaraiions which
he had made having been offensive to the
citizens.— Baltimore Sun.
Ihe Pride or Blood. —Daniel Webster
has received a splendid carriage and a span of
elegant grey horses as a reward for his servi
ces in favor of the fugitive slave law; and
Henry M. West, Esq., of New York, has
received from the claimant of Henry Long, a
silver pitcher as a testimony of gratitude for
Webster’s zealous services in returning Long
into slavery while our Divinity Cummings
gets the fat job of printing the IJ, S. Laws as
a reward for urging obedience to the fugitive
law All this is the price of blood !—Pleas
ure Boat.
JC/ George Thompson describes the press
of the United States that supports slavery as
the most degraded in the world and says he
cannot understand the religion of America,
where the Bible is withheld from three mil
lions of slaves, and where thirty thousand
ministers nearly all set the laws of the United
States above the law* of God. —Practical
Christian.
Josephine remained for some days a
Navarre, in a state of most painfu
anguish respecting the fate of the Em
peror. She allowed herself no relaxa
tion, except a solitary ride each morn
iug in the park, and another short rid
after dinner with one of her ladiet
The Einperor Alexander had imme
d'ately sent a guard of honor to protec
from all intrusion. Hundred
of thousands of soldiers were swarm
ing in all directions, and every dwelling
was filled with terror and detraction
One melancholy incident we will re
cord, illustrative of hundreds wbic
might be narrated. Lord Londonderry
in the midst of a bloody skirmish, sa«
a young and beautiful French lady, th
wife of colonel, in a caleche, seizei
by three brutal Russian soldiers, win
were carrying ofif, into the fields, thei
frantic and shrinking victim. The gal
lant Englishman, sword in hand,
forward for her deliverance from hi
barbarian allies. He succeeded i
rescuing her, and, in the confusion c
the battle still raging, ordered a dra
goon to take her to his own quarters til
she could be provided with suitabl
protection. The dragoon took the lady
dead wtth terror, upon his horsi
behind him, and was galloping with lie
to a place of safety, when onolher ru(
Can band of Cossacks surrounded him
pierced his body with their sabers, am
seized again the unhappy victim. Shi
was never heard of more. The Em
peror Alexander was greatly distress
ed at her t. r e, and made the utmost
though untvji ing efforts to discove
what had become of her. The revela
tions of the last day alone can divulgi
the horrors of this awful tragedy.
Tne grief of Josephine in these dayi
of anxiety was intense in the extreme
She passed her whole time in talking
about Napoleon, or in reading the let'
ters she had received from him. H«
wrote frequently, as he escaped frou
place to place, but many of bis letter*
were intercepted by the bands o
soldiers traversing every road. Th*
last she had received from him wat
dated at Brienne. It gave an account
of a desperate engagement, in whief
the little band of Napoleon had beei
overwhelmed by numbers, and wa*
concluded with the fullo.wing affecting
words: “On beholding those scene*
where I had passed my boyhood, and
comparing my peaceful condition then
w.th the agitation and terror which
I now experience, 1 several times said,
in my own mind, I have sought to meet
death in many coufiicts; I can no longer
fear it. To ine death would now be a
blessing, but I Would once more see
Josephine,”
Notwithstanding the desperate state
of affairs, Josephine still cherished the
hope that his commanding genius would
yet enable hiui to retrieve his fortunes.
All them hopes were, however,
dispelled on the receipt of the following
letter:
Fontainebleau, April 16, 1314
“Dear Jorephine—l wrote to you
on the-Bth oi l Ins month, but perhap*
you have not received my letter. Hos
tilities still continued, and possibly ii
may have been intercepted. At present
the communications must be re-estab
lished. 1 have formed my resolution.
I have no doubt that this billet will
roach you. 1 will not repeat what 1
said to you. Then I lamented my
aituation, now I congratulate mysell
upon it. My head aud spirit are freed
from an enormous weight. My full i
great, but it inay, as men any, prove
useful. In my retreat I shall substitute
the pen lor the sword. TTie history oi
my reign will be curious. The world
has yet seen me only in profile. I shah
•how myself in full. How many things
have 1 to disclose! how many am the
men of whom a false estimate is enter
tained! 1 have heaped benefits upon
millions of wretches! What have they
done in the end for me? They have
ail betrayed me—ye«, all. I except
from this number the good Eugene, so
worthy of you and of me. Adieu! my
dear Josephine Be resigned as I am,
and never forget hiui who never forgot’
aud never will lorget you. Farewell,’
Josephine. Napoleon.
P.?*.—l expect to hear from you at
Elba. I am not very well/'
Upon reading these tidings of eo
terrible an overthrow, Joeephiae was
overwhelmed with grief, and for a time
wept bitterly. Soon, however, recover
ing her seif- possession, she exclaimed,
“f must not reraaiu here. My presence
|f necessary to the Einperor, That
duty iff, indeed, more Maria Louisa's
than mine, but the Emperor iff alone
forsaken. Well, I a! least will not
abandon him. I might be dispensed
with while he was happy; now, 1 am
sure that he expects me.’’ After a
pause of a few moments, in which she
seemed absorbed in her own thoughts,
•he addressed her chamberlain, saying,
“I may, however, interfere with his
arrangements. ¥ou will remain here
with ine till intelligence be re*
ceired from the allied sovereigns; they
will respect her who was the wife of
Napoleon."
She was indeed remembered by
them. The magnanimity of her con
duct under the deep wrongs of the
divorce, had filled Europe with admira
tion. The allied sovereigns sent her
assurances of their most friendly re
gards. They entreated her to return
to Malmaison, and provided her with
an ample guard for her protection. Jlei
court was ever crowded with the most
illustrious rnonarchs and nobles, whe
sought a presentation to do homage
to her virtues. Emperor Alexandu
was one of the first to visit her. Ht
said to her on that occasion, Madam,
L burned with the desire of beholding
you. Since I entered France, I havt
never heard your name pronounced bui
with benedictions. In the cottage ant!
in the palace I have collected account!
of your angelic goodness, and I do my
self a pleasure in thus presenting tc
your majesty the universal homage o
which I am the bearer.”
Maria Louisa, thinking only of sell
declined accompanying Napoleon tc
his humble retreat. Josephine, noi
knowing her decision, wrJte to tht
Emperor: "Now only can I calculate
the whole extent of the misfortune o
having beheld my union with you dis
solved by law. Now do 1 indeed la
inent being no more than your friend
who can but mourn over a misfortune
great as it is unexpected. Ah! sire
why can I not fly to you? Why can I
not give you the assu’ance that exii«
1 has no terrors save for vulgar minds
I and that, far from diminishing a smeert
attachment, misfortune imparts to it t
new force? I have been upon the poiu
of qui'ting France to follow your foot
J steps, and to consecrate to you the re
mainder of an existence which you s<
long embellished. A single motive re
t strained me, and that you may divine
If I learn that I am the only one whi
will fulfil her duty, nothing shall detail
t me, and I will go to the only plac<
where, henceforth, there can be happi
ness for me, since I shall be able t<
console you when you are there isolate!
and unfortunate! Sa/ but the word,
f depart. Adieu, sir; whatever I woult
add would still be 100 little. It is m
1 longer- by words that my sentiments fo
you are to be proved, and for action;
i your consent is necessary."
A few days after this letter was writ
1 ten the Emperor Alexander, with t
number of illustrious guests, dined witl
Josephine at Malmaison. In the even
ing twilight, the party went out upoi
the beautiful lawn in front of the housi
I for recreation. Josephine, whose healtl
had become exceedingly precariuU:
through care and sorrow, being regard
i less of herself in devotion to hei
r friends, took a violent cold. The nex
day she was worse. Without any verj
definite form of disease, she day aflei
I day grew more faint and feeble, unti
it was evident that her final change was
near at hand- Eugene and Hortense
her most affectionate children, wer<
with her by day and by night. Thej
communicated to her the judgment o
her physician that death was near
She heard the tidings with perfect com
posure, and called for a clergyman tc
administer to her the last rites of re
ligion.
Just after this solemnity the Emperoi
Alexander eutered the room. Eugent
and Hortense, oathed in tears, were
kneeling at their mother’s side. Jose
phine beckoned to the Emperor to ap
proach her, and said to him and hei
children, "1 have always desired the
Jtdppihess of France. I did all in my
power to contribute to it; and l can
say with truth, to all of you now pres
ent, at my last moments, that the first
wife ofNapoleon never caused a single
tear to flow.”
She called for the portrait of the Em
peror; she gazed upon it long and
tenderly; and then fervently pressing it
in her clasped hands to her bosom,
faintly articulated the following pruyer:
“O God! watch over Napoleon while
he remains in the desert of this w orld.
Alas! though he hath committed great
i&ults, hath he not expiated them by
great sufferings? Just God, thou hast
looked into his heart, and hast seen by
how ardent a desire for useful arid dura
ble improvements he was animated.
Deign to approve my last petition. And
may this image of my husband bear
ine witness that my latest wish and my
latest prayer were for him and my
children.”
Il was the 29tW of May, 1814. A
tranquil summer’s day was fading away
into a cloudless, serene, and beautiful
evening. The rays of the setting sun,
struggling through the foliage of the
open window, shone cheerfully upon
ihe bed where the Empress was dying.
The vesper songs of the birds which
tilled the groves of Malmaison floated
sweetly upon the ear, and the gentle
spirit of Josephine, lulled to repose by
these sweet anthems, sank into its last
sleep. Gazing upon the portrait ot the
Emperor, she exclaimed, li L'isle
d’Elbe Napoleon!" and died.
Alexander, as he gazed upon her
lifeless remains, burst into tears, and
uttered the following affecting yet just
tribute of respect to her memory:
"She is no m ire; that woman whom
France named the beneficent, that
angel of goodness, is no more. Those
who have known Josehine can never
forget her. She dies regretted by her
offspring, her friends, and her contem
poraries.”
For four days her body remained
shrouded in state for its burial. Dur
ing this time more than twenty thou
sand of the people of France visited
her beloved remains. On the 2ud of
June, at mid-day, the funeral proces
sion moved from Malmaison to Ruel,
where the body was deposited in a tomb
of the village church. The funeral
services were conducted with tbs
greatest magnificence, as the sove
reigns of the allied armies united with
the French in doing honor to ler me*
mvr/i When nil had Lft the church
but Eugene ard Hortense, they knelt
bestdd their mother's grave, and for a
long time mingled their prayers and
their tears. A beautiful monument of
white marble, representing the Em
press kneeling in her coronation robes,
is erected over her burial-place, with
this simple but affecting inscription:
EUGENE AND UoRTENSE
TO
JOSEPHINE.
REPORT
Of the Committee on Education presented
to tht Convention of Citizens of Color.
Mr. John J. Zuille, from the Com
mittee on Education, presented the
following statistics and recommenda
tions:
The Educational interests of our
children in New York City, are cow
miilted to the care of the Public
School Society of the city of New
York, the “Society for»the Promotion
of Education among Colored child
ren," and the Teachers in their em
ploy, as well as the “Board of Educa
tion,” and such other institutions as
may give free Education to children,
including the “Asylum for Colored
Orphans.”
The <ust named Society is managed
by a Board of Trustees of 93 gentle
men, a President, Vice President,
Treasurer and Secretary. The second
by a Board of 21 Trusties, a President,
Treasurer and Secretary. The mem
bers of the Board of Education arc
elected by the people.
Public Schools, for colored children
were first established here by the New
York Manumissijn Society, and by ii
transferred to the jurisdiction of thf
Public School Society. Tne Society
for the Promotion of Education ainon?
Colored Children, wa* incorporated l>\
the Legislature in 1847, and has es
tablished two schools. This laltei
society is composed entirely of colorei
persons, and managed by them. Th*
following are the statistics of schools
with the number of children on regis
ter, and the average attendance, so fai
as we have been able to gather them
SCHOOLS OP THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SOCIET]
Public School No. 1, situated it
Mulberry street, near Grand, will sea
201) children in the mule department
and 144 in the female department
making 344 seats. Whole number o
children on register 191 boys, 122girli
—total 313. The average attendant
is 150 hoys, and 90 girls—total 24(
average attendance, leaving generallj
54 seats vacant. Ttiis school is laugh
by Mr. John Peterson and Miss Caro
line Roe, as Principals.
Public School No. 2, in Lauren
treet, near Broome, will seat 150 boys
132 girls in the upper department, am
118 in the Primary department, with t
i gallery in the latter department to ac
commodate 60 or 70 children—tota
j seats 400. Whole number of childrei
on register 114 hoys, 107 girls in th<
1 upper departments, and 143 boys am
girls in the Primary department— tota
on register 364, average attendance, 7;
boys, 75 girls, and 86 in the Primarj
department—total average attendance
233; leaving generally 77 seats vacant
Mr. Ransom F. Wake, Miss Fannj
Tompkins, Miss Sarah Ennalls, Priiici
pals.
Primary school 3, 15th street, nea
7th Avenue, has 116 seals, with gal
lery; 120 on register, average attend
ance. for the last year 68, leaving
about 32 seats vacant, Miss Jane E
Percy, Principal.
Primary Schools 4 and 6, have 20(
seats, 188 on register with an average
attend nice, of 133, leaving about 61
seats vacant. Mr. George Green riii
Miss C. E. Robins, Principals. Mak
ing the whole number taught in thes<
schools 980; average attendance, 674
SCHOOLS OF THE SOCIETT FOR THE PRO
MOTION OF EDUCATION AMONG
COLORED CHILDREN.
Primary School 1, in Centre street
near Leonard, has 143 seats, 119 ot
register, average attendance, 63, leav
ing about 60 seats vacant. Mr. Georg*
Lawrence, Principal.
Public school 2, in Thomas sPreet
has 83 seats in the ma'e, 85 in the
female, and 96 in the Primary depart
ment—total 264. On register 184 boyi
and 196 girls—total 3SO. Average at
tendance, 200. vacant seats 64.
Whole number taught in thest
Schools, 499; average attendance, 263
Mr. Samuel S. Rankin, Mrs. Jane M
Forten, and Miss Elizabeth Pierce,
Principals.
This would make the whole numbei
taught in all of the above mentioned
schools, 1485; average attendance,
937. Add to this the whole number
taught in Harlem and Yorkville
Schools, 100; average attendance, 70.
Colored Orphan Asylum, 269; average
attendance, 167. Whole number
taught from Public funds, 1854; aver
age attendance, 1174. A private school
in Wooster street near Prince, Miss
R. Peterson, Teacher, has on register,
60; average attendance, 45. Catholic
school, Howard street, 40; average at
tendance, 27. Matting whole number
in school 1954; average attendance,
1246.
Notwithstanding this number of
children in schools, there is still a large
number of seats in the Public Schools
uroccupied, being about 374 exclusive
of gallery and other accommodations;
and there are avast number of children
who might be in school, running at
large in the public streets, with no one
to care for then*.
Under the head of “Colored Popula
tion,” Mr. McKeeu, the Superintendent
of Common Schools for the City and
County of New York makes the follow
ing remarks and statements:
“Notwithstanding the great amount
of prejudice in a portion of our citi
zens against color, and the increasing
numbers of fugitives and ignorant black
people, who are constantly coming in
to the city, it is believed that New
York has made more ample provisions
lor the education of this class of people,
than any large town or city in the
world.
The Pub'ic School Society have had
in their schools, during the past year,
of this class, 2020
The Society for the Promotion
of Education among colored
chi'dreo, 912
Ward Schools, 142
Colored Orphan Asylum, 260
Alms House nod House of Refuge
have provided for probably, 50
3398
From tbit it may be seen that the
city of New York baa provided instruc
tion and achool accomodations for about
one* eighth of the whole colored popu
lation of the city. Besides the above,
there is supported during 1? weeks, an
evening school for colored perrons, in
which were taught 217 persons.”
In the city ot Brooklyn, there is a
public school capable of seating 450
children, having on register 300 and
an average attendance of 200. Taught
by Mr. William J. Wilson and Miss
Wilson.
A Public School at Carsville, 60 on
register—average attendance 40, 12 ol
whom ace ’-white. Mr. Junius C.
Morel, Teacher.
At Williamsburg, there is a public
School having on register 194 children,
average attendance 99. Mr. E. Jin
nings and Mrs. M. W. Stewart, Teach
ers. An Evening School, 69 on
register, 16 average attendance. Pri
vate School by Miss Jane Williams,
40 on register, 27 average attendance.
There is a public school on Staten
Island, taught by Mr. Prince Love
riJge.
There is no certain data for ascer
taining the number of children between
the age of 4 and 16 years at present,
nor will there be until the publication
of the Census, in either of the places
spoken of in this statement. But it is
well known that a large number are
out of school who ought to be in it.
This is proved from ocular demonstra
tion.
The Schools are open to all, free as
the air we breathe, and their advan
tages ought not to be neglected, and
cannot be without suicidal criminality.
Our children must have the advant
ages of the Common Schools to th>-
fullest extent, and some sacrifices, must
be made to provide them proper situa
tions of employment when they leave
school, and t* these ends our attention
ought to be directed.
In view of the facts here presented,
as well as other which might be named,
your committee beg leave to recom
mend,
That an association of ladies and
gentlemen be formed, consisting of at
least 40 ladies and 40 gentlemen, which
shall lake upon itself the duty of secur
ing a more full attendance of children
at school, and of providing for them,
when they leave school, suitable places
o| employment, where they may obtain
a knowledge of the mechanical branch
es, cither in or out of the city, or any
branch of business that shall promise
steady employment, as well as to de
velope their physical, social and menta'
capacity.
1. That this association perform its
duty by visiting parents who do noi
send their children to school regularly,
and urge upon them the importance «>l
making the necessary sacrifices to en
able their children to attend school.
2 By attending to the wants of such
children as are deprived of the privi
leges of the school by a need of the
necessary clothing.
3. By holding a Fair once a year, or
by making public appeals for funds to
accomplish the end designed; or by
adopting such measures as in the better
judgment of the association shall best
promote the object in view.
Your Committee further recommend
that this association be formed immedi
ately, with power to increase ther num
ber to any necessary extent; and that
similar associations be formed in
Brooklyn, Williamsburgh and Staten
island.
That in each place, the names and
places of business of mechanics who
«r« willing to take colored apprentice*
be taken, and proper apprentices re
commended; pledging to them all the
support we can command while they
are instructing such apprentices when
they have learned their trades.
Your Committee are of opinion that
should the association be conducted
with energy, it will tend to inspire
greater confidence in your youth, a
better self-respect, and in connection
with other enterprizes, to shorten the
days of oppression in this land, to in
cite higher purposes; and to fix the fact
in the minds of all, that as Americans,
we are one people, and have a com
mon destiny.— A. S. Standard.
THE SWEETNESS OF HOME.
He who has no home has not the
sweet pleasure of life; he feels not the
thousand endearments that cluster
r around that hallowed spot to fill the
void of his aching helrt und while away
his leisure moments in the sweetest ol
life’s joys. Is misfortune your lot?
you will find a friendly welcome from
hearts beating true to your own. The
chosen partner of your toil has a smile
of approbation when others have de
scried, a hand to help when all others
refuse, and a heart to feel your sorrows
as her own. Perhaps a smiling cherub,
with prattling glee and joyous laugh,
will drive ail sorrow from your care
worn brow, and enclose it in the
wreaths of domestic bliss.
No matter how humble the home
tpay be, how destitute its stores, r
fcovv poorly its inmates are clad; if true
hearts dwell there, it is yet a home—
a cheerful, piuderit wife, obedient and
affectionate children, will give the.r
possessor more real joy than bags 01
gold and windy honor.
Tiie home of a temperate, industri
ous, honest man, will be his greatest
joy. Ho comes to it "weary am
worn," but the merry laugh and happy
voice of childhood cheers him; a
plain, but healthy meal awaits him.
Envy, ambition, and strife have n«>
place there; and, with a clear con
science, he lays his weary limbs dowi
to rest in the bosom of his family, and
under the protecting care of the poor
man’s friend and help.
The Richmond Enquirer ia warmly
in favor of the project for encouraging
the emigration of free blacks to Ja
macia, and recommends the imposition
of a tax upon tbi* class of population it.
Virginia to riufce a fund for their re
moval. It hopes thereby to separat*
the free negroes from direct cootac
with the slaves, and to build up and
attract to Virginia the trade of Jamaica.