UNITY AND BROTHERHOOD OF
THE HUMAN RACE,
Rev. Thomas Smyth, I). D,, the
Carolina patriarch who gained more
fame than glory by his encounter with
Frederick Douglass in Ireland, has
just published an elaborate argument
entitled “The unity of the Human
Race proved to be the drctrine of
Scripture, Reason and Science.” The
reader may charitably suppose that the
Slaveholding Dr. has profited by Mr
Douglass’s tuition, and his experience
in Ireland, and emancipated his slaves;
and that having repented of the sin of
degrading men into brutes, he boldly
preaches the gospel of equal brother
hood to his slaveholding partners in
sin, calling them to love their neighbor
and break every yoke and prove their
love to God, by their 10-ve to their
brethren Not so. We presume, as
we have no evidence of his repentance
or reform, that Dr. Smyth remains a
slaveholder It go, he still practically
gives the lie to the teachings of Moses,
the prophets and Jesus Christ, and
“out of his own mouth he is con
demned.” He is moved to his work,
not by love for man, but reverence for
the Bible; not to protect him from out
rage and desecration, but to preserve
that from doubt; not to check violence
and oppression and war, but to stem
the increase of “infidel” science. It
brings him no grief to. see immortal
souls brutalized, the holiest union of
life torn asunder, the fairest creature
of an infinitely wise and good Creator,
deformed into a monster, or sunk to
stolid idiocy; no, he can join in the
horrible sacrilege, and defend it as ac
ceptable service to God; but his right
eous soul is vexed that the expounders
of the wonders of nature cast doubt
either upon the text or the ancient in
terpretation thereof, and he overflows
with zeal to vindicate the integrity of
the Scriptures. To what end? That
they shall be made to redeem man
from slavery and war, and the world
from sin? Or that they shall continue i
to furnish a bulwark to legalized and
popular crime? Let his life give an- l
swer.
But whatever his motive, his argu
ment falls with its full weight upon his
own head. At the bar of conscience
and the world he stands convicted, by
his own pleading, of infidelity to the
Scriptures and to God, in his daily
practical denial of the human brother
hood. Well might the learned natu
ralists whom he arraigns for irrever
ence to the Scriptures reply, “Thou
hypocrite? Doth not the same revela
tion which declares ‘God hath made
ail nations of one blood,’ also command
‘Love thy neighbor as thyself?’ Dost
thou appeal to Moses! Then like Mo-
on this fiftieth year of the century,
proclaim a Jubilee of‘liberty through
out all the land unto all the inhabitants
thereof.* Believest thou in the pro
phets? Like them go thou into the
oalaces of the oppressor, and ‘cry
aloud,’ commanding to ‘break every
yoke.’ Art thou a disciple of Christ?
Follow him in preaching deliverance
to the captive, in saving the lost and
healing the sick; receive the poorest
slave as Jesus himself, for ‘inasmuch
as ye do it to one of the least of these,
ye do it unto’him. Dost thou revere
the Apostles? Heed their counsels,
and render ‘justice and equality’ to
thy servants. Dost thou defend the
Bible and the oneness of the human
race? Obey the Bible, and treat man
as thy brother. Pluck the beam of in
justice from thy own eye, ere thou
seekest for the mote of error in ours.”
To answer such a reply, we suspect,
would give Dr. Smyth a severer task
than that he has attempted.
Opinion Abroad—Of the Benton
and Foot fracas in the Senate, the
London Standard, an able and judi
cious journal says:—
When we compare so frightful an
exhibition as this to any of the al
tercations in the British Senate, we
feel that we have a right to be proud
of the exercise of public opinion on the
conduct of our parliamentary represen
atives,
TERMS
At an adjourned meeting of the Ves
try of St. *1 homas P. E. Church, held
Monday evening, June 3d, 1850, the
following Preamble and Resolutions,
reported by a Committee previously
appointed, were accented and unani
mously adopted. The said Committee
was also authorized to publish Sie
same in such papers as they might see
proper to select.
Whereas, The Minister, Church
W ardens, and V estrymen of St.
Thomas’ P. E. Church did send in a
petition to the Episcopal Convention
of tho Diocese of Pennsylvania, sit
ting in Philadelphia, May, 1849, pray
ing said Convention to repeal the Bth
revised regulation, which prohibit
the aforesaid church from being reps
resented by delegation, having been
under the superintendence of the Bish
op of the Diocese upwards of fifty-five
years, and having conformed to the
doctrines, discipline and worship o
the Episcopal Church during the pe*
riod above mentioned; and whereas,
the said petition was referred to i
committee of five gentlemen to report
to the Convention to be held in St.
Andrew’s Church, in 1850; and
whereas, a majority of the committee
not only reported adversely to the
prayer of the petitioners, but betrayed
a spirit very unbecoming professing
Christians, announcing in their report
that our ‘color, physical and social
CONDITION AND EDUCATION RENDERED
US ENTIRELY UNFIT TO SIT IN DELIBER
ATIVE bodies;” and whereas we are
not surprised at the final result, yet
we confess that we are perfectly as
tounded to find that it was thought ne
cessary, in so solemn an assembly, in
order to reach the result to conde
scend to appeal to those unrighteous
prejudices unknown in the constitution
of the Church, the Book of Common
Prayer, and utterly at variance with
all the principles precepts, and doc
trines, as laid down by the great Head
of the Church:
Therefore, Resolved, That if we were
heretofore dextrous of beiog admitted
into union with the Convention, we
are not now, nor can we hereafter be,
(with due respect to ourselves and to
posterity)
social condition and education” con
tinue to be the test of admission or
rejection
Resolved, That in the opinion of
this vestry, the expressions that were
used by some of the members of the
Convention should be kept from the
heathen, lest the gospel should fail to
have its salutary effect upon their minds,
they instinctively rejecting the mes
sage at the hands of those who justify
complexional distinctions in the Church
of Christ.
Resolved, That expediency is no plea
against the violation of the great prin
ciples of charity, mercy, justice and
truth.
Resolved, That the consoling con
sideration offered, by reminding us
that the rejection could not debar us
from communing with the spirit, did
not, in our humble opinion, come with
very good grace, after having been
told, in terms not to be misunderstood,
that we were “entirely unfit” to hold
visible fellowship with a delegated
counsel of that body, who defines the
Church to be a “visible body or
faithful men,” &.C., whose high mis
sion on earth is fulfilled only so far
as she is a co-worker with the spirit.
Resolved, That the thanks of this
vestry be, and are hereby tendered to
that portion of the Convention who
endorsed by their votes the minority
report, which developesthe true Cath
olic spirit, beautifully harmonizing
with all that is pure, holy and elevating
in the Christian system.
James Needham,
Clayton Miller,
J. C. Bowers, Comm
J. L. Hart, and
Franklin Turner,
Last of the Slaves in New Eng
land. The New Hampshire papers
record the death at Hanover, of Mrs.
Jane Wentworth, a colored woman, at
the age of three score and ten. Grad
uates at Dartmouth will recollect her
as Aunt Jenny, the wash-woman, and
nurse in sickness. Her parents were
slaves, kidnapped when very young,
and came by inheritance in possession
of the family of Mrs. House of Han
over. They were subsequently sold to
a gentleman in Salem, N. H., where
they remained until they were emanci
pated by the laws of the State. Jenny
was born in Hanover, in 1777, was
sold with her parents, and upon be
coming free, she married Charles
Wentworth, a slave ofGovernor Went
worth, They then removed to Hanover
—where they lived till their death.
Jenny outlived her husband several
years—and was one of the last of the
African race who in our early history
were held in bondage in New Eng
land.
VOL. 111. NO. 26.
expression of sentiments
From the vestry of St. Thomas P. E.
Church, in relation to the action of
the Episcopal ConvenUon of the dio
cese of Pennsylvania, on the majority
report of a Committee to whom was
referred a certain petition from the
aforesaid Church,respectfully asking
a repeal ot the eighth revised regula
tion.
Resolved, as the sense of this ves-=
try,,That the members of St. Thomas’
Church have common understanding,
and know how to appreciate virtue,
honesty and industry, as well as other
people, let their complexion be what it
may.
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX; TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR;
DESTROYED GARRISONISM, HAVE
Among the great benefits resulting
from the organization of the Free Soil
party, we rank the influence it has
had in bringing to a due standard of
moderation the views of so many
Northern Abolitionists. That this has
been achieved, is plain enough. Com
pare the spirit manifested at the Taber
_nacle on Tuesday morning with what
it has been in times past. We regard
that meeting as the final struggle of the
ultra or Garrison party. In it they
were worsted, alike by public opinion,
and then* own foiiy. The whole coun
try is agitatiug upon the question as it
never has been before; the long strife
in Congress has reached its crisis; and
all eyes are turned upon this great dis
play of ultra Abolition strength. It
shared for a moment with Congress
the attention of the people; even the
mercbers of that body might be sup
posed to feel its influence in that de
cision. What came of it all? Their
great anniversary was a failure, not
even important enough to be abused.
As if blinded for their own destruction,
they did not even play their own best
cards. Wendell Phillips, the gentle
man, the scholar, the fearless orator,
the only redeeming man of the party,
who shines among his company like a
pearl on a dunghill, sat in inglorious
silence, and the time was occupied in
stupid discussion on negro physiology,
and the empty jabber of some half
taught negroes, cowering all the while
beneath a bully’s fist.
So spoke the Brooklyn Freeman, on
the 9th inst.
So reason madmen. No doubt the
Webseter’s, and Clay’s, and Foote’s,
and slave-holders, North and South,
think the Garrison meeting at the
Tabernacle, was a failure. They in
tended to make it a failure, if they
washed their hands in the blood of the
peaceable men and women that assem
bled there. Yes, mad-men may regard
that “meeting as the final struggle of
the ultra Garrison party.”
Now, we are not technically of the
Garrison party, nevertheless .we will
say that that Anniversary, instead of
being a failure, was the beginning, in
our opinian, of a glorious triumph. The
infidel and blasphemous parties of this
country, can produce no moral failure,
by the interposition of of a drunken
mob. The physical arms of lawless
**i Warns, under tlvo gf*rtd**rvce rrp tv
Christless Church and a ruined State,
may not, and cannot, crush the moral
power of he country. On the contra
ry, as the history of the world has
proved, as the history of this cause has
proved, it does but give vigor to the
power it intended to dsstroy.
Garrison preached a more effectual
iesson at the Tabernacle—he has writ-
ten out a more truthful ana godly ser
mon upon the literature of the country
-—than the orthodox of the schools
ever thought of. He did, indeed, prove
himself the real Christian, the true dis
i ciple, and showed his persecutors to be
the infidels and blasphemers of the
truth, and the God of truth. That
sermon will live, and gather fruit, and
triumph over the Pharisaical, impious,
and infidel instructions of the schoools,
until a better day dawns upon hu
manity.
The parties have made a desperate
onset upon God and humanity since
Congress assembled. Their energies
have all been gathared, and propelled
with concentrated force, against the
friends of truth and righteousness—but
they may as well hope to dethrone the
Almighty, as to break the power of his
faithful followers. They have got to
ltarn that “truth crushed to earth will
rise again.” But that day is passed in
this country. Truth cannot even be
crushed here. In Europe, it may be
pressed down by power, but here, it
rises by the pressure upon it.
We love Garrison, and Douglass,
and Phillips, the better for their perse
cutions.—Liberty Party Paper.
IMPRISONMENT OF A BRITISH
SUBJECT.
In the police intelligepce, which
will be found reported in our paper
of our, will be found the case of Isaac
Bowers, a colored man, a native of
Antigua, and, of course, a British sub
ject, who has recently suffered an im
prisonment of two months, in the goal
of Charleston, South Carolina, for no
criminal offence or misdemeanor com
mitted by him, but solely on the ground
of his color. He does not appear tc
have landed at the port of that city, but
was taken boldly and by force out of the
British bark, Mary Jinn from under
the protection of the British flag; and
contrary to our treaties with the United
States, and the amity of nations, was
deprived of his personal liberty, and
subjected to the restraints and disci
pline of a prison. Isaac Bowers is
admitted to be a most respectable man,
but, if we may judge from the answer
of Lord Palmerston to the question o'"
Mr. Cockburn, in relation to his case,
he is not likely to obtain any redress
for the indignity and injury he has suf
fered at the hands of the American au
tohrities. Now we do not intend that
this case shall pass over so lightly;, it
is too important to be shuffled out of
sight, to suit the convenience of any
parties; and the question must receive
a definite answer, whether the colored
population belonging to this country
and its various dependencies are to be
treated as felons and slaves in any ports
dlhhe United States; and whether the
British Government is unable or un
willing to protect them, when going
ROCHESTER, N. Y., THURSDAY JUNE 20, 1850.
THEY’
Mr. Rusk replied at considerable
length in defence of the title of Texas
to the Rio Grande. The debate was
continued (no new point of interest be
ing disclosed, by Messrs. Hale, Davis,
(of Mass.) and Douglas.
Mr. Davis, of Miss., supported Mr.
Clemens’ amendment in a speech of
some length,and with much vehemence,
insisting that the title of Texas to the
Rio Grande is indisputable, and ex
pressing his unqualified dissent from
any proposition which shall eventually
give to Free Soil any portion of terri
tory belonging so clearly to the South
Mr. Foote said he would not himself
vote for the Committee’s proposition
for the settlement of the boundary of
Texas, if he was not satisfied that it
would not result in making Free Soil,
E thither on their lawful business? It
may not be known to some of our read
ers, that, had the captain of the Mary
Jinn chosen to have left Isaac Bowers
in prison, or have refused to pay the
expenses incurred by his detention
there, he would have been sold to pay
the goal fees, and would now be a slave
13 probably on some Southern plantation.
The Committee of the Anti-slavery
r Society have long had the laws and po
lt lice regulations of the slave States, af
d fecting colored people, under their
e consideration, and heve frequently
r sought the aid of f h Y; ’rnrpent forj
the protection ot them, vnen injured j
by their application. Some years since
lt two British subjects from the Bahamas
were seized and cast into prison in one
of the slave States, on the ground of
their color. By a mere accident it was
1 discovered that, being unable to pay
8 the goal fees, they were sold as slaves.
3 In that case the Government made a
demand on the United States, and one
of them was ultimately discovered and
r restored to his freedom; the other
could not be found, and most probably
died under the merciless treatment he
received. It is not improbsble that at
1 this very time there are many British l
colored subjects in slavery, in the Uni- I
ted States, and that more will have to I
endure the same hard fate, unless the
L Government be urged to do its duty, i
1 A case similar to the one now under 1
consideration was fully brought under
the attention of Lord Aberdeen, when t
Foreign Minister; and from the corres
pondence whidh ensued, it was under
stood that, in future, the personal free- c
dom of ,all British subjects, without dis- j
Unction of color, .would be respected in c
American, ports. The case of
ftaac Bowers, however, shows that we t
were mistaken; and we now call upon s
every portion of the British press and a
the British public, to demand from the
Government that measures be imme
diately taken to.prevent such outrages
on our fellow-subjects for the future. n
We call also on the entire body of col- l<
ored persons in the emancipated col
onies and in England, to make a spe- U
cial effort to obtain their rights in this a
particular. We advise them, without
d<siay, to call public meetings, to col
lect facts, and to memorialize the gov-
ernment on this important point; nor to
desist, until the Foreign Ministers shall
do them justice, and extend an equal Cl
protection to them with that enjoyed by 111
their white fellow-subjects.— Jhiti-Sla- T
Very Itiponer. it
Thirty-first Congress-First Session.
We copy the following report of the
proceedings of Congress from the New
York Tribune:
Washington. June 7.
The Senate met at II o’clock; hardly
a quorum present.
Mr. Mason presented a memorial
from Mr. Ritchie, asking to be released
from the contract for Public Printing.
It was referred to the Committee on
Printing.
Mr. King asked to be excused from
the further service on the Committee
of Investigation into the Benton and
Foote rencontre. He stated that it is
supposed by a party interested in the
investigation, that he is biased in rela
tion to the matter, and he felt that he.
could not serve on the committee con
sistently with self-respect. [The dif
ference is understood to be between
Mr. King and Mr. Benton.
The motion to excuse was adopted.
After the transaction of the morning
business, the Senate, in Committee of
the Whole, resumed the consideration
of the “Omnibus Bill.”
Mr. Clemens moved to amend the
section fixing the boundaries of Texas
so as to conform those boundaries as
settled by the Law of Limits passed by
the Texan Congress in 1848; also,
providing for the setting apart, for the
use of the Indians, all of the territory
north of latitude 34 deg; the Indians to
be collected and removed thereto at the
expense of the United States.
Mr. Clay addressed the Senate,
avoiding the question of title of Texas,
but discussing the importance of the
amendment in its bearing and influence
upon the general question. In consid
eration of the many differences of
opinion in regard to the title of Texas,
this wa3 pre-eminently a subject of
compromise. The compromise pro
posed by the committee, he believed to
be one which ought to command the
approval of both sections. Southern
gentlemen in particular, in view of the
doubts thrown upon the title of Texas,
ought to give it a hearty assent. He
called upon Southern Senators not to
insist upon their assertion of the un
doubted title of Texas, and predicted
that if-the question should ever be sub
mitted to the decision of the Supreme
Court, they would decide against the
claim of Texas.
G OD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL; AND ALL MEN ARE BRETHREN-
and intimated an amendment removing
all doubt from this point.
After further debate by Messrs. Cass,
Berrien, Butler, and Mason,
Mr. ebster said he did not desire
to see great political questions referred
to the Judiciary of the country. He
thought it much better to settle such
questions by compromise, yet he saw
no difficulty in bringing this question of
the title of Texas to the Supreme Court
ot the United States. The question
was one between the United States and
the State of Texas; and he proceeded
to show, by argument, that the case
might be easily and rc 6 marly brought)
before that tribunal.
Mr. Mason desired to enter his dis
sent to the proposition, that any case
could arise in which the United States
could be one party in a suit and a State
in another.
Mr. Hale moved that when the Sen
ate adjourn, it should be to Monday
next. It was very evident that the
Senate could not get through with the
amendments to the bill to-morrow.
Mr. Clay suggested that the motion
was not in order while the bill was un
der consideration; and the friends of
the bill generally insisted upon sitting
to-morrow, for the purpose of getting
the final vote, if possible.
The vote was then taken upon the
amendment of Mr. Clemens, and it
was rejected—yeas 17, nays 37.
Mr. Hale moved a postponement of
the bill until Monday.
Mr. Clay opposed.
Mr. Benton intimated his intention
on Monday to move the indefinite post
ponement of the further consideration
of the bilk
The Senate then refused to postpone
the bill till Monday; but made it the
special order for to-morrow; and after
an Executive session, adjourned.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
After unimportant preliminary busi
ness, an ineffectual attempt was made
to take up private bills.
The House went into Committee of
the Whole on the state of the Union,
and resumed the consideration of the
California question.
Messrs. Hubbard, Richardson and
Williams gave notice of amendments
they will offer.
Mr. Caldwell, of Kentucky, pro
ceeded to show that the anti-slavery
movement was for the purpose of ac
quiring political power. He was wil
ling to admit California in connection
with territorial governments for Utah
and New Mexico, but not without.
He planted himself on the Democratic
platform of non-intervention to slavery.
Mr. Root declared the people of the
North all one way on the slavery ques
tion, and there would never be dough
facery here if they were honestly rep
resented it was glory more than enough
that the Wilmot Proviso had made Cal
ifornia glorious as a new State.
Mr. Johnson of Arkansas, advocated
the Missouri Compromise, and pressed
the necessity of all Southern men com
bining to oppose the organization of the
North against Southern rights. (Forty
members present, and two persons only
in the galleries.)
Mr. Duncan was in favor of the ad
mission of California, and territorial
Governments for Nd’w Mexico and
Utah, excluding slavery, and a proper
settlement of the boundary between
New Mexico and Texas. He was also
in fa .or of the abolition of slavery in
the District of Columbia.
Mr. Duer gave notice of an amend
ment, almost in the words of the com
promise of the Senate. He was aware
of the strong objections to it, but there
was necessity for action of some sort,
and this was less objectionable than
some other propositions. He reserved
the right to offer or not to offer it, be
ing governed by circumstances.
The committee rose and the House
took a recess till 8 o’clock.
At a quarter past 8, the consideration
of the California question was resumed.
Mr. Jackson, of Ga., advocated the
Missouri Compromise Line, arguing
that all the Southern States can be pro
fitably cultivated South of 36 deg. 30
min. He warmly defended the South.
Mr. Durkee viewed the great con
troversy as a glorious war between
truth and error, between liberty and
despotism,and zealously argued against
slavery, fondly anticipating the ultimate
triumph of general freedom.
Mr. Phelps obtained the floor, when
a motion was made that the Committee
rise.
No quorum voted.
At half-past ten there were thirty
one members present. The rules be
ing imperative, that the Committee, on
finding itself without a quorum, the
roll shall be called, and absentees re
ported to the House, the members
warned to set the rule aside, but did not
succeed, as several wanted to make
speeches.
The roll was called, the Committee
rose, and the names of absentees re
ported.
At ten minutes to eleven, the House
adjourned.
Washington, June 8
Senate.— Mr. Benton’s resolutions,
instructing the Committee on Finance
to inquire into the expediency of re
funding to California the moneys col
lected from her citizens as duties on
imports, was passed.
After the consideration of the morn
ing business, the Senate took up
THE OMNIBUS BILL.
The questien pending was upon an
amendment moved by Mr. Foote, fix
ing the Northern boundary to be pro
posed to Texas at the thirty-fourth de-
WHOLE NO. 180.
gree of North latitude; also, providing
that nothing in the bill shall be con
strued as impairing the right of Texas
to all the territory claimed by her; pro
vided she shall fail to accept the terms
proposed for the settlement of her
boundaries.
A long and ununinteresting debate
ensued upon this amendment, in the
course of which various propositions
were suggested and disposed of. Fi
nally, however, Mr. Foote’s amend
ment was withdrawn, and
Mr. Douglass moved to amend the
section under consideration, so as to
fix the Northern boundary of Texas as
follows: Run a line, drawn due East
from the Rio -Grande, from the South
end of the junction of the Dead to the
Red River, also fixing the dividing
ridge of the mountains separating the
waters of the Rio Grande and the Gila,
as the Western boundary of Texas.
Mr. Davis, (Loco) of Miss., here
addressed the Senate in opposition to
the entire proposition for settling the
boundary of Texas by any of the modes
proposed. Where did the United States
get the power to purchase the territory
and where did Texas derive the au
thority to sell? He contended that the
thing was wrong; and the result of the
pending propositions, if agreed to,
would only be to rob the South of a
large portion of territory, unquestion
ably belonging to and suited for slave
territory.
These remarks drew out a repetition
of former discussions upon the necessity
and propriety of compromising the
questions in agitation, in the cousre of
which Mr. Foote triumphantly an
nounced the defeat, death, burial and
extermination of Free Soilism, and pre
dicted the speedy settlement of all the
controverted questions of the day, and
the overthrow an destruction of dema
gogues by thousands.
Mr. Hale, (Free Soiler,) of N. H.,
responded in a tone of pungent irony,
expressing his sincere thanks to Mr.
Foote, for having come out fairly and
squarely and declared that he would
not go tor this measure if he supposed
it would add a foot of Free Soil.
Mr. Dawson, (Whig,) of Georgia,
went into a castigation of Mr. Hale,
intimating that he had mounted the free
soil hobby for interested purposes, and
reading from a letter, published several
years ago, by Rev. Mr.
paper called ihe “Star,” for the pur
pose or snowing that Mr. Hale, at that
time, took decided ground against abo
litionism. The letter states that Mr.
Hale, at the close of an address by
Mr. Storer, arose and denounced abo
litionism in no measured t* rms, as well
as declared the black s to be beasts in
human form, unfit to live free. He
also read an extract from the Dover
(N. H.) Gazette which, he intimated,
was then under the control of Mr. Hale,
in which, also, the abolitionists are
handled with much severity, and an
abolition lecturer, named Thompson,
is threatened with a law found inside of
pine, and outside of geese, or, in other
terms, a coat of tar and feathers. Mr.
Dawson thought the position taken by
Mr. Hale at that time, honorable, cred
itable, and worthy the good heart
which he knew he possessed. He only
alluded to this history now for the pur
pose of suggesting- to the Senator, that
having once held such views, and
changed his own sentiments, he should
have more consideration and charity
for those who then thought with him,
and whose views had not changed.
Mr. Hale admitted the general ac
curacy of the statement made by Rev.
Mr. Storer, and that within fifteen
years his sentiments had changed, and
proceeded to defend himself with con
siderable force against the aspersions
upen his course
Washington, June 10,
Mr. Webster presented a memorial
of citizens of Boston, praying that
Professor Johnson may be authorized
to make further exploration, under the
direction ot the Government, of the
coal regions of the country, which he
supported with a few remarks.
The bill to promote the progress of
the useful arts was taken up, and made
a special order for half-past 11 o’clock
to-morrow.
[Mr. Clay, who had been indisposed,
here entered the Senate, his health
having much improved]
After the consideration of morning
business, the Senate took up the “Om
nibus Bill.”
Mr. Hale having the floor with
drew in favor of Mr. Benton, who he
said desired to address the Senate to
day.
[Mr. Clay expressed the hope that
Mr. Benton would postpone making
the motion which he had intimated, un
til the vote should have been taken on
the amendments proposed to the bill.]
Mr. Benton intimated that there was
no disposition to take any vote, that fur
ther discussion upon amendments was
only to add to the waste of time all
ready accomplished in the considera
tion of the bill; and expressed his
readiness to withdraw, whenever the
Senate should be ready to take a vote.
He then moved the further considera
tion of the bill be*postponed until the
4th of March, in the year of our Lord
1854, and proceeded to address the
Senate in support of the motion, but
in so low a tone for some time, as to
be inaudible in the gallery. After
some sarcastic and amusiug observe-!
tions in relation to the appointment of
the Committee of Thirteen and their
operations, he said California was
made the scape-goat of all the sins of
Slavery; innocent of it herself, their
sins were all heaped upon her head.
He gave an account of the proceed
ings among the Jews, in sacrificing a
goat for the expration of the sins of
Israel, for the purpose of showing the
analogy between the ceremony and
the action of the Committee of Thirteen.
One of the reasons given for the con
junction of the several measures, was
the speed with which she was to come
in. The argument had been fully an
swered by the lapse of time.—Another
argument was the danger of such op
position to the admission of Calif inia,
as a separate measure altogether.
That resolution had been abandoned
by those who advocated it. California
was made a mere hand-maid of the
Territories, to be used for this pur
pose. Three months ago he and Mr.
Clay stood together in favor of the in
dependent admission of California.
The Senator from Kentucky left him
as he had a right to do, and he had re
fused to follow, as he had a right to
retuse; but Mr. Clay had no right to
call upon those who chose otherwise,
to follow the path which he had taken.
He did not admit that the Territories
were the supreme objects of considera
ion; he admitted that they were ob
ects demanding the attention of Con
gress, he felt that the neglect which
they had experienced was a shame and
reproach to Congress, but they were
not the superior objects, and entitled
to the first consideration. California
occupied that position, having pre
pared herself for immediate action,
and presented herself for admission in
to the family of States. The pica was,
that by this bill, California and the
territories were to be carried through
together, but suppose they should
be defeated together? Suppose Cali
fornia, to whom there was little or no
objection, should be dragged down
with measures to which there was much
demurring, where would be her reme
dy, and what the reasonable excuse
for submitting her to such a fate?
Why should the friends of California
be compelled either to vote against
her admission, or to take with her and
vote for measures which they honestly
believe to be injurious, and which they
cannot therefore vote for, and fiulfil
ihe obligations they had assumed?
He proceeded to consider the several
bills reported by the Compromise Com
mittee exposing their various objec
tions and incongruities. He dwelt at
much iength upon that portion of the
California hill proposing to define the
boundaries of Texas and New Mexico,
describing the geograghy of the coun
try, and contending that the boundaries
suggested are unnatural and inexpedi
ent. Having disposed of this branch
of the subject, he proceeded at great
length with a general examination of
the scheme presented as a Compro
mise—convulsing the chamber with
laughter at his droll analogies and il
lustrations, and attacking the matter in
a strain of biting sarcasm and irresisti
ble irony, \tUiich he applied equally,
and with no measured hand, to the
originators of the scheme, its advo
cates and supporters. In conclusion,
he observed that it was time to end
this “comedy of errors.”—California
was suffering for admission, and the
Territories for protection; with a view
to that end he had made the motion to
Mr. Hale addressed the Senate in re
ply to the personal attack made upon
him by Mr. Dawson, on Saturday last
for the. purpose ot vindicating himself
from the charge of having, from cor
rupt motives, mounted a hobby to ride
into power. He gave a history of his
political course, showing that at the
time he separated from the Democratic
party, with whom he stood as well as
any man, that party was largely in the
majority in New Hampshire. As for
ambition for the future, we had only to
say, that it was well known among his
triends, that Jit was very far from his
intention even to serve out the brief
term for which he had been elected to
the Senate.
After a brief reply by Mr. Dawson,
and a rejoinder from Mr. Hale, Mr-
Cass took the floor, and the Senate
adjourned.
PANORAMA OF SLAVERY.
We hail every effort to spread in
formation on the subject of slavery
with satistaction, whether it come in
the shape of public meetings, lectures,
or pictorial representations; and there
fore we earnestly invite those unac
quainted with its details, or anxious to
have their feelings of detestation deep
ened against the horrid institution, to
an inspection of the moving panorama
of American Slavery, now exhibiting
at the Royal Victoria Hall, Leicester-
Square. The hours of exhibition are
three in the afternoon and half-past
seven o’clock in the evening. The
panorama opens with a scene on the
African coast, and then follow a series
of paintings embracing the great out
lines of slavery in the United States,
and the escape of slaves into Canada!
The Rev. Mr. Irwin, the proprietor,
comes highly recommended to us as a
Christian and an abolitionist, who, dur
ing twelve years’ residence in the slave
States, became thoroughly acquainted
with the system of slavery, and the
sufferings and degradation of the slave.
He accompanies the panorama with il
lustrative remarks, having himself per
sonally witnessed the events each de
partment of the panorama is intended
to represent, with the exception only of
the African scene. We are satisfied
thet the great object which Mr. Irwin
has in view is not profit, but the diffu
sion of information on the subject of
American slavery, and that he deserves
the patronage and support of every
British abolitionist. Many will be in
town during the anniversary meetings;
end not one of them, we trust, will fail
to visit this panorama, and to recom
mend others to follow the example.
An hour spent in this way, we are per
suaded, will not be regretted.— A. S.
Reporter.
Manumitted Slaves.— Mr. Timo
thy Rodgers, of Bedford county, Va.,
who died recently, by his will emanci
pated bis slaves, about thirty, on con
dition that the American Colonization
Society shall send them to Africa
The society made a public call for aid
and stated that if SIBOO is contributed’
the slaves should be sent to their des
tmation; where on their arrival, they
will he liberally provided for, under the
provisions of the will. This sum has
been subscribed in Nejv York city,
and. the slaves will go to Liberia re
joicing. From the Rochester Democrat.
Daniel Webster and Horace Maun.
The Hon. Horace Mann has replied ai
great length to the Newburyport letter of Mr
Webster, which we published some da)*
since. Mr. W. took occasion to refer rathei
contemptuously to Mr. Mann, for which tie
latter returns some pretty hard hits. It space
permitted, we would give the whole of Mr.
Mann's letter, but as it is we can publish only
the following:
‘I have seen a publication by Mr. Horace
Mann, a member of Congress from Massa
chusetts, in which I find this sentence.
Speaking of the bill before the House, he
says: ‘‘This bill derides the trial by Jury
secured by the Constitution. A man maj
not lose his horse without a right to this trial
but he may lose his freedom, Mr. Webster
speaks for the South and Slavery, not tor
the North and for Freedom, when he aban
dons this right.” This personal vituperation
does not annoy me, but I lament to see a
public man of Massachusetts so crude and
confused in his legal apprehensions, and so
little acquainted with the Constitution of his
country as these opinions evince Mr. Mann
to be. His citation of a supposed case, as in
point, if it have any analogy to the matter,
would prove that, if Mr. Mann’s horse stray
into his neighbors field, he cannot lead him
back without a previous trial by Jury to as
certain the right. Truly, if what Mr. Mann
■ays of the provisions of the Constitution in
this publication be a test of his accuracy in
the understanding of that instrument, he
would to well not to seek to protect his pe
culiar notions under its sanction, but to ap
peal at once, as others do, to that higher au
thoiity which sits emhtoned above the Con
stitution and above the law.’
On this Mr. M. thus comments:
Mr. Webster ‘‘laments to see a public man
of Massachusetts so crude and confused in
his legal apprehensions, and so little acquaint
ed with the Constitution of h's country as
these opinions evince Mr. Mann to be.”
Yet he points out no error of opinion. He
specifies nothing as unusual. He presents
no information, indictment, bill of particulars,
or even the “common counts.” Judgment
and condemnation alone appear. He seems
to have taken it for granted that he had only
to say I was guilty, and then proceed to pun
ish. I protest against and impugn tnis
method of proceeding, by any man, however
high, against any man, however humble.
When Mr. Webster penned his “lamenta
tions” over my crudeness, confusion and ig
norance, he doubtless meant to deal me a
mortal blow. The blow was certainly heavy;
but the question still remains whether it hit.
Polyphemus struck hard blows, but his
blindness left the objects of bis passion un
harmed.
But wherein do these erroneous “opinions”
consist, which Mr. Webster does not deign
to specify, but assumes to condemn! Fortu
nately, in writing the sentences which he
quotes for animadversion, 1 followed the pre
cise meaning of Judge Stoty, as laid down n
his Commentaries; and in regard to the only
point which is open to a question, I look the
exact words of that great Jurist. He speaks
of “the right of a trial by Jury, in civil ca
ses,” as an existing right before the seventh
article of the amendment to the Constitution,
which preserves this right “in suits of com
mon law,” had been adopted. 3 Comm. 628.
Instead of transcribing Judge Stoiy’s words,
“in civil cases,” which present no distinct
image to common minds, I supposed the eve
ry day case of a litigation respecting a horse,
which is a “civil case;” and this difference of
fotm is the only difference between my lan
guage and that of the learned Judge. I can
wish Mr. W. no more fitting retribution, af
ter reposing from this ill tempeied attack up
on roe, than to awake and find that it was
Judge Story whom he had maligned.
Ttiir thp onininn expressed by me on this
point, does not need tne autfiuniy ol any itaiinr
to support it; and the illustration which I
give is not only intelligible to every sensible
man, but is also apposite. I said “a man
may not lose his horse [his property in a
horse] without a right to this trial.” Mr.
Webster’s comment is, that this case, “if it
have any analogy to the matter.” means,
that if a man’s horse “stray into his neighbor’s
field, he cannot lead him back without a previ
ous trial by jury to ascertain the right.”
Was ever the plain meaning of a sentence
more exactly changed about end for end!
Mr. Webster may pitch summcrsetts with
his own doctrines, but he has no right to
pitch them with mine. I said a man may
not lose his horse, or his property in a horse,
without aright to the trial by Jury. He
says I said, a man cannot find or retake a
lost horse, without a previous trial? Dulec
est desipere loco. Or it is pleasant to see
a grave Senator play upon words, but there
must be wit to redeem it from puerijity.
But the childishness of this criticism is
not its worst feature. What is the great
truth which Mr. Webster and his apologists
attempt here to ridicule? It is that while
every man amongst us, in regard to any
piece of property worth more than S2O, of
which violence or fraud may attempt to de
spoil him, has a right to a trial by Jury, yet
a man’s freedom, and that of his posterity
forever, may be wrested from him, as our
law now stands, without such a trial. D ies
not this hold a man’s freedom to be of less
value than S2O? If. two adverse claimanls
contest title to an alleged slave, whose mar
ket value is more than this sum, each is enti
tled to a jury to try the fact of ownership.
But if the alleged slave declares that he
owns himself, he is debarred from his right.
And this truth, or a common illustration of it,
Mr. Webster and his apologists think a sui
table topic for sneers or pleasantry! A for
eign proverb says, that for a man to kill his
mother is not in good taste. I trust the mor
al and religious people of Massachusetts have
too much good taste to Telish a joke on such a
theme.”
Mr. Mann then goes on to examine at
length and with remarkable ability and learn
ing, the merits of the legal and constitutional
question of granting a trial by jury to per
sons claimed as a fugitive slaves, arguing
that they have every way a good right there
to.
We quote the following paragraphs:
“Mr. Webster advises me in a certain con
tingency, “to appeal to ihe higher authority
which sits enthroned above the Constitution
and above the law;” I take no exception to
this counsel, because of its officiousness, but
would thank him for it. My ideas of duty
require me to seek anxiously for the true in
terpretation of the Constitution, and then to
abide by it, unswayed by hope or fear. It
the Constitution requires me to do anything
which my sense of duty forbids, I shall save
my conscience by resigning my office. lam
free, however, to say, that if in the discharge
of my political duties, I should transfer my al
legiance to any other power, I should adopt
Mr. Webster’s advice, and go to the power
“which sits enthroned above,” rather than to
descend to that opposite realm, whence the
bill which he so coidially promised to sup
port, must have emerged.
Mr. Webster holds Massachusetts up to
the ridicule of the woild, because she “grows
fervid on Pennsylvania wrongs:” and he has
deemed it his duty to enquire how many sei
zures of fugiiive slaves have occurred in New
England wiihin our time. Is this the Chris
tian standard by which to estimate the evil of
encroachments upon the xaost sacred rights of
men? If I repose in contentment and indif
ference, because my own section, or state, or
county, is as yet but a partial sufferer, whv
should I not continue contented and indiffer
ent as long as I am safe? In providing for
the liberties of the citizen, under a common
government, I think Massachusetts worthy
of all honor, and not of ridicule, because
she does “grow fervid upon Pennsylvania
wrongs,” and on the wrong of an entire race,
whether in Pennsylvania or California, cer
tainly within the boundaries of our own coun
try. I see no reasorr why my sympathies as
-a man, or the obligation of my oath as an of
in regard to the nearer or remoter
Slates, should be inversely as the squares <f
lie distances. Even with regard to foreign
•ountrtes. did Mr. Webster thnrk so, in those
tetter days, when his eloquent appeal for op
ressed and bleeding Greece roused the na
uon like the voice of a clarion? Did Mr.
Webster deem i necessary to make inquisi
ians through all the New England States,
how many Hungarian patriots there had been
shot at the of the drum, or how many no
ble women had been striped anJ
whipped in their market places, before he
bribed the heart of the nation, at the wrongs
if Kossuth and his compatriots, and invoked
he execrations of the world upon the Austri
rn and Russian despots? 1 see no difference
between these cases, which is not in favor o!
our own interests, of our own domestic right
except the difference of their bearings upon
partisan politics.
Conscience and the Constitution with
Remarks on the recent Speech of the Hon. Dan
iel Webster on the Subject of Slavery; by M.
Stuart, lately Professor in the Theological Sem
inary at Andover, Published by Croker St Brew
ster, Boston.
This is a large octavo pamphlet of 120
pages, for which we are indebted to S. M.
Pettingill, newspaper and advertising agent.
This work is ostensibly a zealous attempt to
sustain the profligate course of the Great New
England Apostate in laying himself, and at
tempting to lay his constituents and his coun
try, upon the altar of human Slavery. In
truth, it is, however, an assay to overthrow
the Bible, and God himself, by making them
the upholders and justifiers of that greatest of
all violations of human rights.
The introductory portion of the present
pamphlet is mostly personal and apologetic,
and is a singular medley of c -Asm, pedantry,
garrullity, Greek philology, argument and
stale anecdote. —The “ancient and venerable”
ex-Professor evidently labors under a vague
and rather indefinable impression of the dif
ficulties that stand in the way of his effort.
The certainty that the natural and moral in
stincts of the people of New England, and
especially of Massachusetts, are against him,
seems to hang weightily upon his mind.
Though he puts his sholder resolutely to tin
wheel, yet does lie betray at every moment
the consciousness that the load is heavier
than that he may be able to carry it. We
would like to present many and luminous
extracts from this book did our limits permit.
A more remarkable instance of the weakness
of learning, when arrayed against common
sense and the common sympathies of the hu
man heart, we have never met.
Here is a specimen of the way the learned
Hebrew lexicographer confounds the doctrines
of modern Abolitionists, who contend that all
slavery is sinful and criminal. After a very
brief consideration of the Old Testament
teaching, he says:
“In the name of all (hat is called reasoning
now, in morals or religion, how is the owner
ship of slaves which heaven has given expressed
leave to purchase to be deemed a crime of ihe
deepest dye—a malum in se —an offence to be
classed wnh murder and treason? Let those
answer this question, who decide a priori
what the Bible ought to speak and then turn
it over in order to see how they can make it
speak what they wish. But there is no
bending or twisting of Moses’s words. There
they are, so plain that “he who runneth mav
read.” If Abolitionists are right in their
position, then Moses is greatly in the wrong.
More than this; then has the God of the He
brews sanctioned, with his express leave, the
commission of a crime as great as that which
he has forbidden in the sixth or seventh com
mandment. There is no retreat from this.—
The position of the Abolitionists plainly taxes
high Heaven with misdemeanor, —with en
couragement to commit one among the foulest
of crimes.”
Such exposition as this, of the Old Testa
ment, from an evangelical Doctor of Divinity!
that men who know the utter
diabolism, ot Slavery, are ready, nay, compell
ed to reject the canonical auOw*u v n f a book
which, they are taught, upholds the most
atrocious wrong man can commit against his
fellow man? Nor does the ex-Professor of
Theology think much better of the New Tes
tament. That, also, is proslavery.—Christ
and the Apostles were proslavery. In fact,
opposition to the “peculiar institution” is,
in his judgment, little less than blasphemy,
and nothing short of infidelity.
From the National Era.
Origin of the Nashville Convention.
The following is a letter from Mr. Calhoun
to Col. C. S. Tarpley of Mississippi:
Fort Hill, July 9, 1858.
Dear Sir: lam greatly obliged to you
for a copy of the proceedings of your [Miss
issippi] meeting. I have read it with a great
deal of pleasure.
You ask me loi my opinion'as to the course
which would be adopted by the [Mississippi]
Slate Convention, in October next. I have
delayed answering your letter until this time,
that I might more fully notice the develop
ments at the North befme I gave it. They
arc more and more adverse to us every day.
There has not been a single occurrence, since
the rising of Congress, which does not indi
cate on the pan of the North a fixed determin
ation to push the Abolition question to the
last extreme.
In my opinion, there is but one thing that
holds out the promise of saving both ourselves
and the Union; and that is a Southern Con
vention, and that, if much longer delayed,
cannot. It ought to have been held this fall,
and ought not to be delayed beyond another
year. All our movements ooght to look to
that result.. For that purpose, every South
ern State ought to be organized, with a Cen
tral Committee, and one in each county.
Ours is already. It is indispensable to pro
duce concert and prompt action. In the
mean time, firm and resolute resolutions ought
to be adopted by yours and such meetings as
may take place before the assembly of the
Legislatures in the fall. They, when they
meet, ought to take up the subject in the
most solemn and impressive manner.
The great object of a Southern Convention
should be, to put forth in a solemn manner
the causes of our guevances in an address to
the other States, and to admonish them, in a
solemn manner, as to the consequences
.which must follow, if they should not be re
dressed, and to take measures preparatory to
it, in cas9 they should not be. The call
should be addtessed to all those who are de
sirous 10 save the Union.and our institutions,
and who in the alternative, should it be foic
ed on us, of submission or dissolving the
partnership, would prefer the latter.
No State could better take the lead in this
great conservative movement than yours. It
is destined to be the greatest of sufferers if
ihe Abolitionists should succeed; and I am not
certain but by the time our Convention meets,
or at furthest, your Legislature, that the time
will have come to make the call.
With great respect, I am, &c.
J. C. Calhoun.
Paine’s Light. —Sir Cha.les D. Aiehibald,
an English gentleman, who has spent some
days in Worcester, examining Paine’s Hydro
Electric Light, after his return to New York,
wrote a letter to Mr. Paine, expressing ad
miration of his achievement in scientific in
vestigations, and offering his services as a
medium of bringing the discovery before the
British public. Mr. Archibald says:
“I will not say anything#further than I
have already expressed, in admiration of yout
splendid discovery, which I now comprehend.
Everv man of right feeling must desire to
see you reap the reward you so richly merit;
and I beg to say that it will give me great
pleasure if I can, in any way, promote your
interest.
“If you feel sufficient confidence in me to
constitute me your representative, I beg to
issuie you that my best services will be freel\
given.”
Mr. Archibald is a member of the Royal
Society, and is connected with several othei
scientific societies.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER, JUNE 20, 1850.
The North Star is sometimes sent to friends
who do not take the paper, in the hope that thej
mav see fit to subscrilie for it. Subscriptions and
donations for the same may be safely enclosed, ad
dressed to Frederick Douglass, Rochester,
N.Y. v
(}C|"Wanted —Several Travelling Agents,
to procure subscribers for the North Star. A
liberal commission will be given. None need apply
but such as can bring good recommendations for
industry, accuracy and honesty. Apply to Fred
erick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y.
Our English friends who have not paid
their subscriptions to the North Star, for the
year 1850, are requested to forward them, by
Post Office Order, to Mrs. Henry Richard
son, 5, Summerhill Grove, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.— f. d.
Agriculture
We cannot too frequently, nor too urgently,
direct the attention of our colored fellow
countrymen to agricultural pursuits, as a
means of livelihood, and final elevation to
equality with the rest of the community.
Situated as we are, as a people—shut out
from nearly all profitable and respectable em
ployments in towns and in cities, our prospeci
would be dark indeed were we thrown en
tirely upon menial employments for subsist
ence. It is therefore a source of much en
couragement to those who believe in the ad
vancement of colored people in this country,
that Agriculture—that employment which
takes us into immediate co-operation with the
arrangements of Providence, and which, ai
the same time, removes us the farthest from
the influence of the malign prejudice by
which we are persecuted and oppressed—i>
still open to us, and bids us welcome to its
manifold blessings.
It is evident to all who refleet upon the
condition of colored people in large cities,
that many causes are in operation to render ii
more and more difficult for them to gain sub
sistence. The flood of emigration setting in
upon our shores from the old world, and espe
cially from Ireland, is rapidly filling our cities
with hungry competitors in those avocation?
upon which the colored people rely mainly
for support. Loading and unloading ships
piling timber in lumber yards stowing goods
in stores, carting, hod-carrying, grooming
horses, acting as servants, gardening all
these, and many other occupations, are Tap
idlv falling into the hands of the Irish, Scotch
and Dutch emigrants to this country. Mean
while, the avenues to all respectable trades
are firmly closed against us. It requires but
little philosophy to foresee that, if emigration
continues, and the avenues to trades remain
thus blocked up, the condition of the colored
people in cities must change rapidly from bad
tp/ worse, and finally become absolutely
wretched and unendurable.
With such a prospect before us, it becomes
us, as men, fathers, husbands and brothers, to
provide against the evil which may be plainly
scanned in the distance. It is cowardly and
disgraceful, on our part, to see and acknowl.
edge the impending ruin, and indolently to
rota out arms ann perisii wunoui a srruggler
We must not, cannot suffer such ignominy
While men aie imbued with prejudices, and
inspired with hatred against us, it is consoling
that the earth and the elements (like the
great God that brough them into being) are
yet impartial, and will pour their rich treas
ures into the garners of colored industry, as
•they do into those of the white husbandman.
Every day’s experience does but confirm us
in the conviction that the most feasible path
from poverty, ignorance and degradation, is
that of agriculture. We must become the
tillers of the soil We must turn from the
faces of men to the face of the earth fromj
the partial and capricious arrangements of j
society, to the steady and impartial operation
of the lawV of Providence. Here we shall
extract the means of living and improvement.
The community may deprive us of trades,
and may refuse to patronize us as shop
keepers; '»ut the farmer, of what color soever
he be, will always be able, in this greedy
world, to command cash for wheat.” Pre
judice is strong, but necessity is stronger.
Let us at once become tillers of the soil, and
our elevation is certain. But we may be told
of the obstacles which obstruct even this
path. There are many who would gladly
leave the large cities, such as New York and
Philadelphia, and go into thecounties around,
but they have large families, that require
every dollar which they can earn from week
to week to satisfy their immediate a.id press
ing wants; and they are therefore left without
the means of emigrating, and with them the
struggle is, to live. We Jo most fully ap
preciate the disadvantages under which our
brethien labor. We admit the difficulties to
be gieat; but tliey are not insurmountable;
and the old maxim, that Where there’s a
will, there’s a way,” applies as truthfully to
us as to any other people. When we have
seen the trains of poverty-stricken white men,
women and children, in their dilapidated
wagons, moving forward towards the fertile
West, with animals that appeared but the
apologies for horses, we have been made to
leel that emigration is wiihin the reach of any
and every industrious colored family whose
circumstances might justify them in making
the effort. Many of our colored citizens have
already, through the benevolence of Genii
Smith, had the first impediment in their path
removed—land has been given to them. These
are without excuse and if they do not go
upon these lands and improve them—we were
about to say that they deserve to suffer.
We are, however, happy to learn that
many have already taken up their goods and
effects, with their wives and little ones, leav
ing behind them the menial employments of
the city, to become the honorable tillers of the
soil, and that more propose to go. But what
we desire to see, is a general movement
among our people in favoi of agricultura
pursuits; for not until we shall show ourselves
not only capable but willing to take the world
from the stump, and extract a living fiom the
earth, need we ever look for independence o
respect. We may black boots, carry the hod
unload the ship, dress hair, and wait at the
table, until doomsday, and we shall not havi
moved one inch towards that equality anr
respectability to which every human being
ought to aspire.
Come, oppressed fellow-countrymen witl
axe, hoe and spade, let us to the woods! and
by active industry and manly endurance, pro
vide for our own wants and achieve our own
freedom.—f. d.
i
fry Geo. W. Goines, whose name is
above, knows that so far as his shameless, but
charactei'istic and impudent statement from
being true, that I turned aside from the sub
ject intended for the lecture on the evening
alluded to, to speak on the influence of. Sla
very over the General Government, and on
this very Prejudice, as the grand reason why
black men are treated us they are, by the
Government and the People. George W.
Goines knows, and had he a will to state the
truth', would say, that three-fourths of my
lecture was on this very subject of negro
hate. The only reason I can conceive of,
whywhe? does not tell the truth, about the
tnafter, is, that it is not las choice to do so.
As to my consenting to the handbill objected
to, the arrangement ot the house, he knows,
and so do the Trustees of the Church, and
Dr. Bias, and Rev. Mr. Templeton, and
scoies of olhers, that I constantly remonstra
ted against it, that I had no responsibility in
the getting up of the bill. Goines also
know’s that the objectionable portion of ihe
handbill was cut off by the Chairman of the
meeting from scores of them, before they
were put into circulation. Goines also knows
that pew-holders in the church resigned their
seats, voluntarily, to accommodate the whites
on the same principle of comity that one gives
his rocking-chair, in his parlor, to his stran
ger guest. This was the distinct ground of
Miss Alice James, and many others, where
anti-slavery will with his.
Now. Fret* giass.JCharles L. Re
mond, Robert Purvis, George I’. Downing,
(t idomne genus, who censured me, ought t<
have known, as they might lme known,
ihese facts; and had ihey ta*ken half the
pains to see and know' that what they said’
was true, before they uttered it, that they
took to cast censure upon me, injny absence,
they could and would have known the facts.
Goines had the mendacity to mislead some
of these gentlemen. That Mr. Douglass
should, however, make such mis-slstements,
a 3 appeared in his Extra, after 1 left the
City, does not all surprise me, but does re
mind me of like slips of his pen or more than
.one occasion before.
S. R. WARD.
f, j.‘
'Remarks. —The complaints against Mr.
WardAnay be stated in a very few words, as
to the\public in Philadelphia in a placard
which stated that the “lower saloon of the
building should be appropriated to white citi
zens exclusively. 2d, He attended that meet
ing, and delivered an address, and never men
tioned this insulting placard.
Now’ we ask in all candor, Has Mr. Ward
denied the truth of either of these charges?
Who ever said that three-fourths of the lec
ture of Mr. Ward was not on this very sub
ject—negro hate? Who ever said that Mr.
Ward didnot object to the arrangement to ihe
individuals named Who ever said that the
chairman of the meeting did not cut off the
objectionable portion of a number of the pla
cards? Nobody: and nobody is therefore
answered by Mr. Ward’s indignant reply.—
We can inform the editor of the impartial
Citizen, that neither his blustering denunc:a
tion of Mr. Goines, nor his polite rocking
chair reasoning, nor his reflections upon our
motives, can wipe out the disgraceful conci
sion made by him, in consenting to address
the meeting in question, without openly de
nouncing that infamous p’acard. That the
North Star Extra did Pot appear till after
Mr. Ward left Philadelphia, was the fault of
the printer, not pur’s.. Mr. Ward knowslhat
ive denounced that handbill in a public meeting,
two hours after our arrival in that city, and
three days before he left.—f. d.
North Star Fair in New York
It will be seen by the Report of the Com
mittee of the North Star Fair, recently held
in the city of New York, that the members
of the Committee have resolved to continue
their efforts. This is gratifying, and shows
that the feeling which prompted the holding
of the first fair, was not an effervescent im
pulse, induced by a desire to make a display,
but an earnest determination to support the
cause of truth and justice. The names of
the ladies associated with this effort, are quite
sufficient to commend their cause among
those who know them. The are found in ihe
front ranks of all those in New York who are
nobly contending against prejudice, and for
the elevation and improvement of our down
trodden people. This effort to sustain the
press devoted to this work, is proof that they
well understand the causes that depress and
enslave the coloied people of this country.—
We commend the example of these, our op
pressed sisters, to all our oppressed people,
and cal! upon them to stand by and sustain
those instrumentalities which serve to lemove
manifold social aud political ills to which we
are continually subjected here at the N#rth,
and to break the chains of the slave at the
South. Who would be free themselves
must strike the bloio.” —f. d.
K? We have copied, in another plaqe, the
letter of Mr. Downing to Mr. Ward—not
because we wish to take part in the matter
which first originated the discussion, but be
cause the discussion has been made to turn
on our representation of Mr. Ward’s conduct
in Philadelphia. In respect to that repre
sentation, w r e may here say, that we stand
by every word of it, and that Mr. Ward’s
statement does not, in the slighest degree, in
validate our testimony. As to what is said
of Messrs. Purvis, Remond, and Goines,
these gentlemen are fully of age, and can
speak for themselves. We hope they may
feci moved to do so.—f. d.
M. R. Delany.—We have just received a
long letter from our friend Delany, addressed
to Samuel R. Ward and evidently intended
as much for ourselves as for him. It relates
to our animadversions upon the unfortunate
handbill published in Philadelphia, announc
ing a meeting for Mr. Ward, coupled not with
a Wilmot Proviso,” but a Colorphobia
Proviso,” under which, negroes were to be
restricted to the galiery, and the lower
saloon ivas to be reserved for our while fellow
citizens exclusively Friend Deiany’s letter
shall appear next week.— F. o.
Joseph and Ruth Dugdale.—These truly
philanthropic friend* are now in the vicinity
of Rochester, enjoying the hospitality of
Elias and Rhoda DeGarmo. Since the yearly
neeting of Congregational Friends, held at
Waterloo, Joseph Dugdale has been seriously
ill. He has now so far recovered as to be
ible to travel again but he is entirely too
eeble to preach. Our interviews with him,
lave left a most plersant impression upon our
nind. His whole soul seems to be swallowed
ip in the sincere desiie to be good, as well as
io do guod.—F. o.
The first article on out first page, ani
madverting upon Dr. Smyth of Charleston, is
copied fiom the Pennsylvania Freeman. A
more contemptible apostate does not breathe,
than this same Smyth. We encountered him
in Belfast, Ireland, four years ago, when he
came to attend the Evangelical Alliance.
He then took the occasion to pronounce our
representations of slavery to be false, where
upon we challenged him to a public discussion.
Instead of accepting our challenge, he meanly
made an attack upon our character—denounced
us an infidel, and as of bad moral character.
We demanded satisfaction, and he promptly
responded, giving the lie to what he had be
fore uttered.— f: d.
The New England A. S. Convention.
It was fully our intention to have been
present at this grand annual assemblage of
the anti slavery masses, recently held in the
city of Boston; and we deeply regretted that
circumstances made it inconvenient for us to
fulfil that intention. It is the most interesting
of all anti-slavery meetings w'hich we have
attended. There is generally a stronger
array of talent and genius to speak, as well
as a larger gathering of earnest men assem
bled to hear at these meetings, than at any
other ansi-slavery meetings w'ith which we
are acquainted. The present meeting seems
to have been one of unusual interest, and to
have awakened much discussion and agitation
in Boston. The Boston papers have been
remarkably unjust and untruthful in their re
presentations of the speeches made; and, as
as remarkably rude and slanderous towards
the speakers themselves. For low vulgarity,
dark insinuations and abuse of the abolition
ists, the Boston press has shown itself ,but
little inferior to that of New York.
We give below the remarks of a distin
guished Massachusetts Senator, respecting
the character of this Convention, which we
take to be a candid and impartial representa
tion of that which he has.generously under
taken to set forth, Mr. Buckingham is not
an abolitionist—at any rate not a disunionist\
but is, we believe, a Whig, and was for
many yeats the distinguished editor of the
Boston Courier, and devotedly attached to
Daniel Webster. It is, however, due to state,
that, though a- Whig, he yet retains a con
science and though devotedly attached to
Mr. Webster, he has refused to follow the
latter in his present infamous slave hunt. But
we are keeping the reader from ths article.—
Here it is: read it entire. f. d.
From the Boston Courier.
One of the Anniversaries.
[BY HON. JOSEPH T. BUCKINGHAM.]
The ‘anniversary week’ has passed away,
editors and reporters have ceased to utter
their judgements, and the public have proba
bly forgotten that such things were. Will
you allow me, my old friends and associates,
to use a colum of the Courier, wherein I may
place on record some thoughts, that have oc
curred to me, on reading ihe ‘Reports’ of the
Anti-Slavery Convention which have ap
peared in some of the papers? I will endea
vor to avoid the forbidden ground of politics,
and to keep my pen within the pale of civili
ty; though I am aware that the subject is
one, which, barely to name, may kindle a
fire in the breasts of some very good and fair
minded people.
In my humble judgement, Messrs. Edi
tors, the New England Anti-Slavery Con
vention was not, during its sessions, treated
with that courtesy, which it had a right to
aspect, and the reports of its proceedings
and the speeches of its members have not
b en fairly represented by the Press. Some
of those reports seem to me to be misrepre
sentations and caricatures. I speak parti
cularly of the speeches made during the
sessions in the day-time; the evening sittings
I know nothing of, for I did not attend any
one of them. I was present nearly all the
time during the three days, and heard most
of the discussions, and I must confess *hat 1
heard nothing that required or justified the
severity of remark or the contemptuous ribald
ry with which the speakers have been re
buked. It is not denied that they used gre at
plainness of speech—that they spoke of the
Constitution and the jaws, of politics and re
ligion, of the State and the Church, of poli
ticians and cletgymen, in tones of great in
dignation, and in words of no equivocal im
port. But Ido not recollect any remark in
relation to either of these subjects, which I
did not believe to be true, or which I should
hesitate to endorse, as my own deliberate
opinion. The speakers were, undoubtedly,
sincete in their opinions; why then should
they not be permitted to express them, un
disturbed by clamorous attempts to restrain
the freedom of speech? I know it is said,
by some, that the Abolitionists are covetous
of martyrdom; and if I mistake not, it has
been said that the leaders were disappointed
and mortified at the close of their last meet
ing, that they were obliged to adjourn with
whole skins. Now I do not believe that
Francis Jackson, Theodore Parker, Wendell
Phillips,or any of those with whom these,our
neighbors and fellow citizens, are associated
on this occasion,—-no, not even W. L. Gar
rison himself, who is the peculiar object ol
calumny and hatred, —had any desire to cre
ate a riot or to subject themselves to personal
violence. It is sad, too—and seemingly in
extenuation of the rude and discourteous
treatment they received,—that thay invite the
public to attend their Conventions, and must
expect to create uproar and confusion. It is
true, they invite all, who are disposed to entei
upon a discussion of their avowed principles
and purposes, toepme and hear, and to speak,
it they see fit, but this is not an invitation to
hiss, or to drown the voice of a speaker b\
stamping with the feet, and thumping witii
canes and bludgeons on the floor of the hall
It is evident, fiom tho alacrity with which
individuals opposed to the sentiments of the
Convention were introduced upon the stage,
that there was no indisposition to hear their
principles, their arguments, or their state
ments of (acts, controverted; and I canno
think that the imputation of a vyish to cieatf
a mob, and to excite sympathy by subjecting
iheiqselves to personal injury, is any thing
better than gratuitous and wanton misrepre
sentation.
The first speaker whom I heard was Hen
ry C. Wright, and it was the first time 1
had ever heard or seen him. This man, I un
derstand, is a graduate from the Andovei
Theological Seminary, and from the mannei
of his speaking,—not, certainly, from tin
matter,— one might have conjectured as
much. There is, in his manner, a good de
gree of genuine orthodox gesticulation, whicl
sets off his speeches with an air that remind
ed me of the Rev. Lyman Beecher. His
theme was Hypocrisy. His text was the
words of the Declaration of Independence.—
‘All men are created equal, endowed \vi l l.
certain inalienable rights,’ This being
self-evident proposition, all laws and all prac
tices, that tended in any degree to produce ar.
artificial inequality, were wrong; and all met,
who believed, or pretended to believe thai
proposition was true, and who should swea
to support the Constitution with its pro-slave
ry provisions, were hypocrites. And a]
nooks which maintained doctrines, or permii
ted or justified practices, contrary to this self
-'vident proposition, he contended were no»
God, but of the devil, and coq n „t be true
h the Bible the making of slaves
ol any portion of the human race, it was, thus
fat, a aelf-evident falsehood. Either the
Bible or the Declaration of Independence,
according to those who justified pro-slavery
from the Bible, must be false, and no one
bad ever pretended that the Declaration ol
Independence did not assert a sacred and
sell-evident truth. Mr. Wright applied his
doctrine to Henry Clay, Daniel Webster,
Moses Stuart, Leonaid Woods. William M.
Rogers, and to all who, in less prominem
spheres, undertake to appologise tor holding
men and women in slavery, or lor returning
fugitive slaves to their masters, and declared
them to be hypocrites by their own confes
sion. if they admitted that all men were
created equal. This argument he iterated
and reiterated, and enforced by many perti
nent illustrations, which I have not time to
place on paper, and lo which I could hardly
do justice, it I should make the attempt. The
strongest expression I heard from Mr. Wright
was, that if the Bible laught doctrines con
trary to the self evident proposition, that
all men were created equal, then the Bible
was a self-evident falsehood, and he would
grind it under his heel as he would the head
of a rattle-snake. Ido not recollect that lie
uttered this declaration, (nor do I believe
that he did utter it) in any one instance,
and 1 think he must have spoken it at least
fifty times, —unaccompanied by this hypo
thetical qualification—lf the Bible teaches
anything contrary lo this self-evident proposi
tion, &c.; and, in this form, I am unable to
see any objection to the sentiment it involves,
or to the language in which it is expressed.
At a subsequent stage of the discussion, Mr.
Wright was asked by one of the audience il
be believed that tire Bible taught this doc
trine, thus opposed to the Declaration of
Independence? and he replied, very emphati
rally, No! In the oourse of his argument,
Mr. Wright described what kind of a God
tlrojvmusi be that was worshiped by Daniel
Webster, Moses Stuart, &e. It could not be
the God of the Bible, for that was a God of
love and humanity—a God who had created
all men equal—a God who had denounced
the severest punishment against all the sins
involved in tire system of American slavery.
Their God and their Bible permited all these
atrocious sins, and when he [Wright] should
take off his hat to such a God, his head should
come off with it, I cannot discover anything
in this that justifies the charge of blasphemy.
A young gentleman, who hailed from New
York, here ascended the platfotm, to enter
his protest against the condemnation of
Messrs. Clay and Webster, whom he pro
nounced the greatest and the best of men—
supporteis of ihe Constitution and the Union,
and w'orthv of the admiration, and love, and
reverence of the world. He said he could
not keep silent when he heard such men spo
ken of so falsely, and he wished to show to
the Convention that their sentence of condem
nation was not unanimous; for he, at least,
would not consent to it;——and here he laid
his hand most pathetically on his chest, as if
he supposed,—and heprobaby r/it/suppose,
that there was a soil of pairiotic pulsation in
side of it. The oratorical display made by
this young gentleman, added to his juvenile
and Narcissus like presence, gained great
applause, and he descended from the platform
with immense cheering.
The platform was next occupied by Mr. C.
C. Burleigh, a gentleman, whose personal
appearance has been a theme for such gra
tuitous ridicule and censure. I confess that
his outside show is not exactly to my taste,
nor such as I should b 8 ambitious to imitate.
But I supposj he cuts his heard and curls
liis hair after the fashion w hich suits his own
taste, and brushes his boots as often as he
plpases; ar.d i do not see that his taste in
this matter is any more a legitimate subjici
for abuse and ridicule, than trie taste of some
young men, whom one sees every day in the
street, and who, if they had no other claim
to humanity than the countenances, which
they decorate with hair, —whether red or
biack is of no importance,—in such a gro
tesque 3nd unhuman fashion, that the monkey
and the orang-outaug u ight bo pardoned if
they should salute them as their natural
j brethren. T\lr. Burleigh dwelt chiefly on the
sin of slave-hunting. A portion of his re
marks were sarcastically severe on Mr. Web
ster for the doctrines laid down in liis re
cent speech in the Senate, and especially for
his declared imention to support Mason’s
Bill to its fullest extent. He aimed to show
that the piovision of the Constitution, con
cerning the reclamation of fugitive slaves,
was in direct hostility to God and humanity;
and that their was a nohler and a higher Jaw
than the Constitution, which it was eveiy
man’s duty to obey whenever that law and
the Constitution came in conflict. By this law
of God and humanity, he contended, every
man is hound to afford food and shelter to fu
gitive slaves, and doubted whether there were
many persons, who wou’d lefuse to succor
the fugitive, if he was in need of food and
protection. He spoke of a case within his
own personal knowledge:
A negro women with a child in her arms,
fled fiom a cruel master, in Maryland, and,
in a cold and stormy night, knocked at the
door of a gentleman in Delaware, and begg
ed lor shelter. He opened his door,—though
he knew he was violating the law of the
State,—received the forlorn wretch with her
perishing babe, fed and warmed her, aid
permitted her lo depart in peace the next
morning. Now, said Mr. 8., are their any
here, who would not do as the gentleman
in Delaware did? Would noi out young
friend (alluding to the gentleman from New
Yo.k) have done as much? Would not you,
sir, (addressing himself directly to the youiu
man,) in that case, have relieved that wretch
ed fugitive? Afe? a pause, the gentleman
said, Not if it would disturb ihe Union,—or
words of that import. But, (said Mr. B.) do
you think the Delevvare man was guilty of sin
against the laws ofGod.Jwhen he thus violated
the law of the State? Would vou refuse to
give food to a fandshing fugitive, although
the law made the act a crime? The reply
was, It would depend upon circumstances
Mr. B. continued 10 press the interiogatoiy.
to which hesitating and evasive replies were
given. He asked for a direct answer to the
question, whether the young gentleman would
in the same circumstances do as the man did.
who relieved the suffering slave; and after
the question had been repeated, he was met
with a decided negative. This colloquy af
forded some amusement to the audience; and
even those, who were opposed to the auti
s'avery doctrines, seemed to make themselves
a little merry at the awkward position of the
gentleman from New York.
Of all the anti-slavery orators, Wendell
Phillips seems to be tho-point, st which the
bitterest denunciations are duected. Slander,
like death, ‘loves a shining mark.’ If those,
who empty upon him the vials of their vvraih
and gall, ha I the head to understand or the
heart to feel what he utter*, w iih a grace
and courtesy w hich very tew speakers can
command, very different,indeed, would be the
Ime ot their reports. I never heard an un
civil or ungentlemanly sentence fall from his
lips He is as incapable of speaking a fals
hood, or of misrepresenting the position and
arguments ot his opponents, as some of them
are of sitting a proper value on truth and
sincerity in language, or gentlenesss and ur
banity of manners. His sentences are well
and harmoniously constructed, and ate utter
edl without effort,.hesitation or study. He
tnntets castigation on hiuocracy and wicked
ness with an unsparing hand, with an instru
ment that stings, but without bursting, maul
ing and butcherin? its object. His “vocabu
lary is entirely deficient in epithet* of vulgar
ny anu meanness. His elocution is easy and
graceful, and his whole deportment has a
character of dignity, manliness, which man\
persons, who made more impirtunate claims
m public approbation, would do well to en
deavorto imitate. To rival is beyond their
power. 1 shall make no attempt to repon
any thing that Mr. Phillips said, in two ot
n brief and incidental speeches, which 1
t e privilege of hearing, for 1 could givt
.eader no idea of the beauty of his langu
ge or the power of his eloquence. If I wer.
mbittouß of changing my position in society,
would more willingly be Wendell Phillips
than either of the great stars, that now shine
with such overpowering effulgence in the con
stellations of politics and theolvgy.
I should be well pleased to give some of
the remarks made by Parker Pillsbury, Theo
dore Parker, Stephen S. Foster, and others,
if I could do so without committing a trss
pass on my permitted limits. Let me say,
however, that the remarks made by Mr. Fos
ter in relation to an amendment which he
proposed to one of the Resolutions were very
pertinent, and adapted to secure a gererai ap
proval of ihe Resolution. 1w as surprised to
learn that the amendment was rejected by the
Convtniion.
You well know, Messrs. Editors, that I am
not an Abolitionist, in the accepted meaning
of that term, —that I have never joined their
ranks, —nor ever participated in their projects.
But when I-saw the caricatures and nmsrep
resntations that were published concerning the
speakers in the recent Convention, —and
when I saw the dishonorable attempts of
certain persons (unknown to me) to interrupt
the proceedings,—and when I heard the in
sulting hisses and clamors of a party, and saw’
the calmness, and patience, and fortitude, ap
proaching to indifference, with which these
nutired advocates for fieedoin receives the re
proaches and the contempuous jeers of their
opponents, I confess I was strongly tempted
to go on to their platform, to sustain their
principles and to partake of their fate, what
ever it may be. You also well know, mat if
1 belong to any political party, (and I am not
aware that any party claims allegiance from
me,) it is to one, which meets with one favor
from anti-slavery orators, but, on the contra
ry, is the subject of then frequent and severe
rebukes. If I have any political sympathies,
they are all shared w 4 th this contemned,
sneered at and despised party; yet, notwith
standing all the objurgatory, and as I think,
unmerited reproof bestowed on this party by
Abolitionists for what they suppose to be its
timidity and short-commings, 1 target them,
all in of their fearless and irre
pressible advocacy of the entire freedom of
the human race.
The Clay ami Foote Compromise,
The Savannah Republican, one of the most
strenuous advocates of slavery extension,
thus speak of this famous Compromise:
“A Simple Calculation. —The Compro
mise of the Committee of Thirteen proposes
to admit California, ONE Free State, and
FOUR Slave States, from the Texan Tern
iory, which will be Slave States, Is it for
the North or the South to complain of this
arrangement? WE GET FOUR STATES
THEY GET ONE.
Ihe Compromise further proposes to sup
press the slave traffic by speculators tn the
District of Columbia—a think oibut litte con
sequence lo us, an_d \vhich has been done by
nearly, if not the Southern Sates
within their own limits—and provide more
effectually for the' re-capturs of fugitive
slaves, or for the compensation of °theie
owners. Here we have an insignificant con
cession and receive in return the garranty of
the government fur the suppression of escapes
and kidnapping, by which our people in the
border Status lose hundreds of slaves annual
ly. Does it become us to denounce this part
of the Compromise.
And lastly in regard to the subject, of Sla
very—the Compromise CONDEMNS THE
W iLMOF PRCA ISO, and proposes to give
teiritorial governments to Utah and New
Mexico without any restriction as to Slavery.
This is what the South has been fighting for
EVER SINCE THE ANTI-SLAVJERY
ORDINANCE OF 1787; and now that we.
offered to us the very thing for which we have
been contending shall we reject it? Do we
claim rights; simply that we may spurn them
when within our grasp
We clip the above from the “Indepen deni
Democrat.” It places the compromise bill;
as it is called, in its true light, and the light
in which it will he received by posterity A
more open, and unmiataksable advantage,
lias, at no one time, been, given to slavery,
than is proposed to be tenderd to the slav©
power, in this corrupt and abominable com
promise.— F. D.
Maryland Slaves.
We aie most happy to learn, by the follow
ing, that so large a number of slaves as are
herein represented, are escaping from Queen
Anne’s county. We have some old friends in
that place; and w? cannot but hope that
many of them, having kindred spirits with
our own, are among the fortunate refugees.
We think, however, that “the Baltimore
Correspondent of the Washington Union,
is greatly mistaken in supposing that aboli
tionists have anything to do with these grand
stampedes. There are hearts and brains among
the slaves—intellects of which their masters
scarcely dream, quite commensurate with
such hazardous undertakings.— f. d.
“A meeting of the slave-holders of Queen
Anne’s county was held at Centreville a few
days since for the purpose of organizing a so
ciety to protect slave property, on account of
the numerous depredations that have been
made by the abolitionists recently in that vi
cinity. Officers were elected, and a constitu
tion adopted, and measures taken for imme
diately commencing operations. The num
ber of slaves weekly lost from the bolder
counties of this State is estimated to be equal
to 10,00.0 in value, and the most efficient
organization will he necessary to prevent its
increase. That they receive money, arms,
and directions from the Abolitionisis, thertt
is no manner of doubt; and, after thev
the line, places of concealment are provided
lor them, with all she “aid and comfort” ne
cessary to enable them to eluue pursuit.
'Fhe recent stampede of sixteen slaves belong
ing to Col. Pearce, from Baltimore county,
and theii arres’ near Shrewsbury, Pennsylva
nia, proved this beyond a doubt. A reward
of $2,000 discovered their hiding place, in
one ol the out-houses ot a farmer in the vicin
ity. They were carried home without wait
ing for legal process.”
Mr. Giddings (sacs ihe Lowell American(
mode an excellent speech in Congress a few
days ago, upon the bill from the Senate pro
viding for the appointment of a Surveyor
Genet?.! of the Public Lands in Oregon, and
donations of land to actual settlers. There
w’as an amendment excluding free colored set
tiers, and to this point Mr. Giddings’ speech
was directed. Those who know horn com
pletely this nation is ruled by the slaveholder,
will not wonder when they learn that this
exclusion was carried by a vote of ght
to fifiy-one. It is such legislation as tms,
carried on year after year, with no piospect
of improvement, which \eiifies the assertion
of John Quincy Ada;ns, that the preseiva
tion, propagation, and perpetuation of slavery,
has been made the vital and animating spirit
of the national government.
What can be less magnanimous and more
mean, on the part of a great and growing
nation, than for its law-makers to go out of
ihe way in legislating for the country, to in
flict a wound upon tho most despised and
helpless of U.e people! Wiien will this
nation learn that true dignity (to say nothing
of Christianity) is insulted by these repeated
efforts to degrade and alienate a peeple, few
in number, and already bowed low under the
yoke of oppression?—f. d.
Slaves For Californba. —Several sLva
.owners have left this state for California,
faking thetr slaves with them, to whom they
have promised their liberty alter two years
service in the mines.
All were not born Equal and Free
The New Yotk Path Finder, a spirited
daily sheet and of extensive circulation, has
been carrying on of late a lively discussion
with the Merchants Day Book on the subject ol
slavery, and especially, in respect to the
doctrine of the “higher power” than the
Constitution, recently announed by Hon. VV.
H. Seward. The Path Finder, is of course
on the liberal side, and vindicates the truth
with much skill. In the course of this dis
cussion, the Day Book puts forth the follow
ing vile nonsense.
“The idea that we are created free and
equal is the sheerest humbug in the world.
It has not the first feature of truth in its
foundation, and is only used by fools and
demagogues who think it great because it is
in the ‘declaration of independence.’ We
are born neither free nor equal, and never
can be either one or the other. We, our
selves, are not free for we have to give our
time to the courts as jurors, and our money
to the tax gatheis for laws and protection; yet
were all men like us we would want no laws,
and consequently would have no tax gath
erers. We submit to these because we must
and not because we want them. Talk about
equality! Look you—see that porter har
nessed like an ass to that cart dragging a load
of truck. Why are you not there? His
child is on its dying bed, its life fast ebbing
because it has not had the proper care and
necessary comforts of its health and support.
He must work in the sun and rain to get bread
for the living onee. He.cannot go to it bed
side and watch it, attend to its wants, supply
it with food, procure it a nurse, or pay a phy
sician to attend it. No, it must die. Why
can’t this poor—shall we say man? no—this
poor ox! go to his dying child? Simply be
cause necessity will not permit him. He free?
Frae as the wind— to work or starve. Why
are not you or I so, Mr. Pathfinder? You
will say that it is because we have‘had ad
vantages,’ have ‘been educated,’ No,
sir—that is not it; or if so, how came you by
that education? We were not created like
him. No circumstances could have'made us
like him. Strip us and throw U 3 into the
street and we would float. We never could
sink to the bottom of society, beeanse we
were not made of that material, and we thank
God for it. You may call the poor laborer a
slave or a free man, as you please. ‘A rose
by any other name would smell as sweet.’
You don’t alter his capacity nor his propensi
ty. ‘Necessity drives him as with an ox goari
in the severest toil. It beats him, ahusfs
him, tears his childreu from, murders them,
starves them and treats him worse than a
slave. Why did not God create him like
us? When some wise abolitionist will ans
wer these questions satisfactorily, or give any
reasonable explanation, why we are different,
we will try and be convinced that a negro is
not a negro.”
Report of the North Star Fair in New
York.
With emotions of gratitude for patronge
received, not unmingled with hope for a
similar favor in future, the North Stat Fair
Association present a report of their first
efforts in endeavoring to assist in sustaining
the North Star.
In this, (as in every good cause,) they met
with obstacles, as they anticipated; yet know
ing their cause to be worthy their efforts, they
were encouraged to petsevere —they did so,
buoyant with hope for the success of their
undertaking; but alas, when all seemed fair
and prosperous, and when about entering
upon the most important part of their duty,
they were doomed to undergo a severe trial.
Sickness and death entered their midst, anti,
like a “thief in the night,” snatched from
them one of the most useful of their mem
bers; thereby casting over them a gloom
which must ever be remembered with heart
felt sorrow. Yes, notwithstanding the diffi
culties they had to contend with, the short
ness of time for preparation, and the melan
choly events which took place during the
Fair, all of which had a tendency to dampen
the ardor of those interested, the result may
be deemed truly successful. With this hasty
glance at the proceedings of the past, the
Association give the following report:
Donations in cash, $147,67
Proceeds of Fair, 838,49
986,16
Expenses of Fair, 576,59
409,57
|>aid to Editor of North Star, 400,00
ggßHance on hand, 9,5.
The Asst tciaiion feel encouraged by the
result o,' thefr feeble efforts, and believe if so
much cant be clone in three months, much more
can be do.oe in twelve. They therefore have
come to the conclusion to continue in this all
important work and labor of love. Joe As
sociation present their heart-felt thanks to
their English friends for the valuable box of
goods received through the Miss Griffiths to
their friends in Philadelphia, Rochester and
Fall River, for the same; to friends in Alle
ghany and Princeton, for valuable donations;
to Mr. P. H. Reason, M. G. T. Downing,
Professor Reason and others, for many offices
of kindness; to the gentlemen of the Amateur
Band, viz: Messrs. W. R. Jackson and S.
Wadlron, who caused great attraction by their
musical talents; and to their New York
friends for very liberal contributions and pa
tronage. They would also return thanks for
the vetv beautiful screen, worked and pre
sented by Mrs. J. M’Cune Smith, and for the
handsome quilt knitted and donated Miss E.
Griffiths.
The Association would inform the public
generally, that they will continue their efforts
for the North Star, and will hold their Fairs
annually during anniversary week, in May.—
Thev would therefore suggest to those friends
who were anxious to contribute to their last
Fair, (but could not, for the want of time,)
*h.at they will now have an opportunity of
sjontri'buting to their anticipated Fair in May
next. The co-operation of friends everywhere
is earnest.''’ elicited. Friends in England
-will please’remJ* tnber this Association in their
contributions for thd* enslaved.
In behalf of the Assod'atiori,
FANNY TOMPKINS, Sec'y.
180 Church street, N. Y.,
To whom commuuicaiions may be addressed
June, 7. 1850.
Rochester, June 9th, 1850.
Friend. Douglass —Riding in the cars
last evening from Batavia to this city, I feli
in company with a young Bostonian who
spent the last winter in New Orleans. In
conversation on the subject of slavery, be told
me of an apparatus for whipping slaves,
which he was informed is used in that city,
which exceeds any and all oiher inventions of
the diabolical system of which I ever heaid.
It consists of a kind of paddle, full of holes
Which is worked in some way by steam.”
When a master wants his slave punished, he
gives him half a dollar and sends him to this
steam whipping machine where they apply
the blows for one cent apiece.
If this story had been told by an abolitionist,
it would have been received by the community
as an exaggerated statement of a reckless fa
natic. As it is, coming from one who said
that he thought the abolitionists were not suf
ficiently charitable towards the slave
holders, who have been educated in the beliei
that slavery is right and that many of the
slaves appeared to be entirely happy, and he
believed were better off” than they would
be if free, ti e statement is a valuable ad
dition to the mass of testimony already before
the public, of the inherent cruelties which
are, and necessarily must be, part and parcel
of this “peculiar” hellish institution.”
The Dirty Deed of Meanness.
Mr. Editor: —ln your paper of the Bth.
you were pleased to say as follows: “With
a golden brite in his hand, a New York City
black man hired some and caused others to
vote the Whig ticket, and he was aided by
some of the most influential of the same class
in the Empire city; and what is still worse
they found the most part of our people sinable
and coaxable enough to do the dirty deed o!
meanness.”
The above cannot be regarded other than
a charge against some one “city black man”
in particular, as you call him, and against
“the most part” of the city black men in
general, as you are pleased to term them—
and a grievous charge too —a charge not
founded in fact; but one calculated to effect
me as “a city black man;”an'l which I notice,
because the base slander—the false libel has
been insinuated at “93” and other places,
that the undersigned received “a golden
bribe” from the whigs at the last election;
and that I “hired” colored men to vote the
whig ticket. This designed fabrication is
perfectly and entirely false.
As for “the city black men” in general, as
it suits your taste to call them—-as for the
being “bribed,” “hired,” or‘ ‘coaxed” into
any action-r-as to their proceeding against
the.ir inclinations, determination, or what they
considered the best interests of the whole;
they are as free from any such charge as are
“the black men” of Syracuse, Geneva, or
any city of the State. Yes; either of being
“coaxed,” “bribed,” or intimidated by friend
or foe. No, sir, “the black men of New
York,” as you emphatically call them, would
support a College—Central College—would
support it, would aid and support, what they
conceived worthy of their aid and support,
though a friend might declare that he “would
hold them in execration” for so doing, “to
the last days of his life;” do not understand
ine as affirming that there are no exceptions
to this fact, for we ha ve colored men, too,
whose sentiments are paid for.
As to any expediency evinced by the color
ed voters of New York at the last election,
I think it justifiable, if voting at all, under all
the circumstances, were justifiable; but it is
not my purpose, nor shall I discuss this point,
in fact I should not have alluded to it at all,
but for the vilifying insinuation connected
therewith.
“The black men” of New York, as you
studiously call them, believed, and do believe,
that the best interest of the whole of the op
pressed cobored men of the land—-the en
slaved, together with the partially free, was
torwarded by the course they then pursued.
[Friend Downing hates the term Black,
don’t he?]
The above was the extent of my intended
article, but sine© it was written I have been
informed, of “a dirty deed of meanness” on
■your part, (you will excuse my frankness)
far outstripping, in subserviency and con
temptibility, anything that any “black man i
of New York has ever been found guilty of. j
I allude to your self-degradation in consenting j
to address an audience in achcrch owned by
colored pers ons—a church worshipped in by
our people, (I will not say a “colored
church,” fo r I repudiate the title and the
principle—it is the property of our enemies
—it is appropriate to the churches w'here the;
“lower saloon is appropriated exclusively to
our white- fellow ciizens”—where “the
Nt-gro Pew* 1 is to be found in the gallery;)
under the crreumstances that you did speak—
for you to speak where a special bond—a posi
tive understanding was had beforehand pro
scribing yousr people—in your being a party,
with a “white committee,” to an arrange
ment whereby colored men, or black men as
you would call them—men, with whom you
are identified by the unrighteous American
system of caste —men, peeled, stripped,
abused and despised—men with whom you
must rise or fall—men positively refused the
occupancy of seats, belonging to themselvss
—seats which they had been in the habit of
occupying almost daily for years; that “while
fellow citizens” might, mark ye! Exclusive
ly!! enjoy them. Yes! according to previous
arrangement and understanding had and pub
lished through the streets of Philadelphia.
This “deed” speaks for itself, —it is even
worse than the charge impuied to “a New
York city black man”—of hiring black men
to vote the Whig ticket; with this disgrace
added to it, of his taking his coaxed and hired
crew to the garret, to deposit their ballots,
whilst other voters weie inducted to the con
venient parlor; it is even more truckling,
grovelling, and everyway disgraceful, than
was the recommendation given Charles L.
Reason some time ago, when preparing for
the ministry by a vestry of his people, advis
ing him to accept of a proposition submitted
to him by Bishop B. T. Ondeidonk, and
which had been previously submitted to the
late J. G. D. Grass©, and to Alex Crummell,
and by them indignantly rejected, viz: to sei
on a side bench in “the school ot the pro
pliets,” and listen to ihe recitations of its
pupils, but not to regard himself as being ol
the classes —and thus he benefited —thus he
prepared to labor in lire vinyard of the Lord
Verily, lie would learn a lesson in humanity
—in self-abasement. It is even more syco
phantic than was the letter subsequently writ
ten and privately sent to the Rev. lat tier in
the Gospel by the same corporation—to this
eminent negro-hater, after he had been con
victed of gross immoralities, wherein they
say to him, who had despised them —-“Be
assured that our confidence in you remains
unshaken,—that our love, respect and venera
tion is unaltered, and that we will gladly re
joice when we shall again listen to your God
ly admonition and advice.”
I cite these, in my opinion, the par excel
lent “dirty derds of meanness,” recorded
against colored men of the city of New York,
to contrast with this, ot ours, and to Bhow
how much more despicable is the latter.
Yours,
GEO. T. DOWNING.
New York, May 24, 1850.
Three points are raised by the latter part
of Friend Downing’s communication.
Did S. R. Ward sanction the arrange
ment alluded >o, and advertised in the hand
biii?— —Mr. Goines, who is capable of telling
ihe truth when he pleases, knows we did
not; and the other gentlemen, including Mr
Downing, might have kß°Wjj it, had they
chosen to know it.
2 Did S. R. Ward n his lecture, rebuke
ll,e Prejudice which Mr. Douglass label)
says, and Mr. Downing as falsely repeals,
he sanctioned? The audience axe witness,
and ihese gentlemen might have known and
stated had they chosen to.tliatwe occupied the
major pait of the evening, in lecturing with
such humble power as we possess, against
Neo-ro Hate, waving the constitutional argu
ment for that purpose, as suggested by cir
cumstances.
3. Did S. R. Ward do right in addressing
a meeting under such a call? That i 3 a mat
ter about which honest men might differ. Our
practice has inyatiably been, to speak in re
buking prejudice, and in giving utterance to
oat sentiments, in any meeting, under ant
call whatever. That’s the wav we come t<
address the meetings in the Tabernacle, 01
the 7th of May last. So v.e addressed tin
Buffalo Convention of ’4B, against the ex
press wish of Mr. Cochrane, the great frei
soiler of New York. So we have addressee
many meetings whose sentiments were a?
wide as are the poles apart, from our own
All we ask, is a fair chance to utter our sen
timents, and whether the meeting be compos
ed of friends, or foes, whether the call please
or displease ns, we have attended and spoken,
and we shall attend and speak, at as man)
meetings as we can, God helping us. Thai
Douglass, Downing, Goines, &c., &c..
should express lhese opinions, on the matter,
is undoubtedly their right. But that they
should state what is not true, or withhold so
much of tiuth as to make, as was evidently
their design, a false impression, is simply to
bear false witness against a neighbor, Bui
what of that to them!
H. COLLINS
We have received letters from Philadelphia
about this matter, in which our friends kindly
inform us of the actions of several gentle
men, in respect to it. We do not differ from
them at all in respect to the very apparent
motive of Mr. Douglass. We do not at all
blame them for doubting that .it was his sole
purpose to bear his “humble” testimony
against wrong.—But of course Mr. Downing
was noton the ground as Mr. Douglass was.
to see, and know, how far from—how op
posite to truth and fairness his sentiment is.
Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy
neighbor. —lmpartial Citizen.
The U. S. Mail steamer Isabel, Capt. Rol
lins, arrived from Havana this morning with
her accustomed punctuality. She left Ha
vana at 5 P. M. on the Bth; Key West at 4
A. M. on the Oth, and reached her wharf at
8 this morning, making 63 hours from port to
port, including the stoppages at Key West
and Savannah. She brings 141 passengers.
By the Isabel we have our files of papers
and correspondence to the Bth inst, extracts
of which will be found annexed.
The papers ate mainly occupied with de
tails connected with the late invasion of the
Island.—A large number of crosses and other
honorary distinctions have been conferred on
those who were prominent in repelling the
invaders at Cardenas, while liberal coniribu
tions have been made for the support of the
families of the killed and wounded on that oc
casion.
Much excitement still prevails throughout
the Island, and the feelings of the old Span
iards and the Government officials run very
strong against the Americans and the Amer
ican Government.
The officers, crew and passengers of the
American vessel still remain in close con
finement. Efforts heve been made by tor
ture to extort confessions from the captains of
the Georgiana and Susan Loud, but in vain.
They declared repeatedly that they regularly
cleared from New Orleans for t 'hagres, as
was confirmed by their papers; that they
had no knowledge of the character or objects
of their passengers until the Creole came
along side, when a number of them went on
board of that vessel, and they were preced
ing on their course to Chagres when they
were captured by the Spanish Steamer.
The American Consul was peremptorily
refused all access to or communication with
the prisoners. To give a coh't, however, to
the proceedings of the Court, the.presence of
the British Consul was invited.
A strong disposition was manifested to dis
pose of the two American captains by a sum
mary execution, but against this course the
British Consul remonsira-ed, and warned
them that this course would involve them in
serious difficulties with the American Gov
ernment. In cons, quence of these remon
strances the decision ot the Court upon their
case was postponed.
The Captains were then suspended in the
air by cords attached to their thumbs, but,
despite the torture, they persisted in their
statements.
Among the prisoners was a young lawyer
from one of ihe Western States, whose symp
toms of trepidation gave expectation that, by
working on h>s fears, confessions might be
obtained that would tend to criminate his
companions. A halter was accordingly placed
around his neck, and cannon-balls attached
to his feet, and with the threat of immediate
death hanging over him, under promise of par
don for himself and for some of his compan
ions whom he named, he made certain dis
closures upon which the authorities based
their further proceedings.
The chief engineer of the Matanzas and
Savanilla Railroad, died suddenly at Havana,
and it was supposed by poison, but there is
no doubt that his deaffi was occasioned by
over excitement and perplexity consequent
upon the invasion of Cardenas.
We have been infoimed by highly intelli
gent gentlemen, that the excitement and ter
ror at Matanzas, Havana, arid throughout the
island, upon the spread of the intelligence of
the landing at Cardenas, was extreme, and,
in many instances, the authorities seemed
perfectly paralyzed. It is their opinion, that
if a thousand brave men, well appointed, and
well officered, had pushed on promptly from
Cardenas, they could have placed themselveiu
the center of the city of Havana, without
serious resistance.
The Tribune says of Professor Stuart’s
pamphlet:—
“In this uncomfortable position, Professor
Stuart has felt himself bound to take the field
in the present pamphlet, which is less a de
fence of Mr. Webster’s course than his own.
No one conversant with the production of the
author will be surprised to find in it a singu
lar medley of egotism, pedantry, garrulity
exegesis, Greek philology, argument and
puerile anecdotes, with the entire absence ol
any sense of congruity, coherence or good
taste.
The professor, however, is not lo be re
garded as the fiiend of slavery. Not he.
He brings up ten good reasons why it should
be deemed an evil, the first of which is, (tell
it not in Gath after all the “exegesis” on
ilie other side,) that it is contrary to the “first
and fundamental piineiples of the Bible which
declares that all are of one blood.” The
few pages which Professor Stuart devotes to
this subject, toward the close of this parnph
let, after such an elaborate apology for Slave
ry as composes the body of the work, remind.-
us of the description given of a certain time
server in another age, that he bui t a church
to the Almighty on one side of the road and
a chapel to the devil on the other.”
It will be seen that Mr. Benton has with
drawn his motion to lay it upon the table, and
Mr. Turney has moved to strike out this
section relating to the boundary between
Texas and New Mexico. While this was
pending, Mr. Webster spoke, and we infer
from the brief sketch of h'S remarks, that he
will support the bill in theschape it stands, oi
may stand when it comes to a vote. He was
followed by Mr. Seward, who truly remark
ed that this whole slieme had been most un
fortunate in its operations and tendency- H
examined the claim of Texas to the territory
of New Mexico, and believing it to be totally
unfounded, was unwilling to vote money t<
Texas lor iand site did not own. He
-willing to vote to pay the debt? of Texas, oi
other gtound®; but not to buy territory t<
which she nas no title-
The friends of the bill are said to be alarm
ed at Mr. Turney’s motion. Should it be
carried, as it is quite likely to be, the bil
cannot pass. The two votes from Texas, a.-
vvell as some others, would certainly be los
if the proposition to pay her a large* bribe b
striken out. The vote upon this motion is
therefore important, and may prove decism
of the fate of the bill.
As we get scarcely any of the proceedings
by telegraph io an intelligable shape, we may
have to wait some time yet before knowing
the result.— Rochester Democrat.
Letter From Havana.
England—The Greek Question.
Nor can it be doubted that that the Russian
Cabinet it prepared, in conformity with its
solemn declarations, since made. public, to
mark its sense of these transactions!
When the note of the 26th of April was
written, it might still be hoped at St. Peteis
burgh that the mediation of France would
prevail; we have yet to learn the effect pro
duced on that Court by the renewal of co
ercive measures, hut it cannot fail to be ai
least as acute as it was in Paris.
Mean while, the indications already given
bv Lord Palmerston of siinilar de-igns against
Naples and Tuscany have put all the Powers
on their guard against the reoccurrence of
such a surprise as the Blockade of the
Piraeus. The French fleet has been for some
months in the Bay of Naples prepared to
ward off an attack in that quarter, and with
instructions to support the King of the Two
Sicilies.
The Grand Duke of Tuscany being sirni
lary threatened, applied for the advice and
support of Northern Powers; and though we
believe that an arrangement has since been
made to refer the Leghorn claims to arbitra
tion, the Cabinets of Russia and Austria have
seized this opportunity to announce that as
Lord Palmerston holds the private claims of
British residents in foreign countries to be a
subject of the interference of the British
fleet, and not to be within the exclusive ju
risdiction of the municipal laws of those
countries, they demur in principle to any such
pretensions, and that they shall take mea
sures to restrict the admission of British sub
jects to reside in their dominions. If any
such measure be acted upon, it can scarcely
fail to produce very inconvenient and unplea
sant consequences, and it would unjustly in
flict on the mercantile classes of j£tij£H*isgiei>
the recoil of a foreign policy in which they
have no part. But after what has passed, we
feel more regret than astonishment to learn
that such things are possible, and we fear
that it must be added that the departure of
the Russian Minister from London must be
anticipated at no distant period.
These occurrences, happening in rapid suc
cession, and accompanied with undisguised
aversion on the part of foreign States, are
not matters of indifference. They are, on
the contrary, warnings and precursers of a
state of Isolation utterly at variance with the
inclinations, the tradition, and the interests
of Great Britain.
From the first hour of Lord Palmerston’s
return to office, these results have been steadi
ly foreseen and predicted. They were then
discernible to an attentive observer of the
future; they are now visible in the broad
davlight of the preset.
But we confess we are not prepared for the
lamentable climax of so daring a career, and
it may seem hard that after so many greater
achivements which have been unavenged,
the claims of Don Pacifico should prove the
last drop w’hich makes the cup of bitterness
overflow.
Is it for such a cause as that we are to be
called upon to confront our former allies, and
to expose the vast interests on this Ethpire to
the adverse chances of universal hostility!—
London Times.
From Jamaica.
The Tribune has bpen furnished with the
following letter from Jamaica* written by G.
W. Alexander, a well-known member of the
Society of Friends, who is now, and has
been for several months past, travelling wiih
a companion in the West Indies as an agent
of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery So
ciety. The object of their mission is to ob
serve the results of Emancipation in the seve
ral Islands:— Standard.
Kingston, Jamaica, Thur. 2 mo. 52.
My Dear Friend: I write very hastily,
to inform you that my wife and self, with our
companions, J. and M. Candler, intend
to leave this place for New York by the
steamer, on the IBih of next month,or there
about. We have now been five weeks
in Jamaica, during which we have trav
elled over a large part of the Island, and are
truly glad to find the condition of planters,
merchants and laboreis better than we ex
pected. That of the latter, especially, is
in general one of much comfort. —This fine
Island is not at present.hastening to ruin, not
withstanding the severe trial in which it has
been exposed by the cruel, injurious, and in
consistent Sugar Act of 1846. It has been
delightful to us to see the large'number of
the emancipated peasantry and their children
who are brought under a moral and religious
influence, by the emod men who ate scalteted
over Jamaica. There can, I think, be little
or no doubt that population is increasing, nov.’
that the dead weight of Slavery is removed,
and there are many indications of an increase
of cultivation, which will, unless I am much
mistaken, be very shortly manifeste d by lar
ger exports, unless checked by bad legisla
tion, or the operation of the decreasing scale
of duties at which foreign sugar is to be in
troduced for consumption in Britain. It re
mains, however, to be seen whether the
friends of the slave in England will yet al
low the Sugar Act of 1846 to be carried into
full effect. I much doubt it. At least this
wili not be done, I believe without a very se
rious struggle, in Parliament. I yesterday
went with our party .to see a slaver, brought
into Kingston within a day or two, with the
slaves on boird. She was first seen by a
British cruiser near the Isle of Pines on the
coast of Cuba, for which country the slaves
were destined, and secured after a chase of
49 hours. This slaver was a favoiable speci
mjn of the mode in which the horrid traffic
in human beings is carried on as she had on
ly 350 slaves on board when she left the
coast of Africa, and was of the burden of
288 tuns. It had, however, been intended
as we were informed, to ship a much larger
number. Of the original cargo, 50 had died
before the capture and 40 since,.leaving about
250 men, woman and children. Of these,
from their appearance, there can he little
doubt hut that some will yet be added to the
list of death connected with the diabolical en
terprise. We saw the slave captain, whose
countenance indicated as utter an absence of
feeling as can well be conceived in a human
he ng. When shall this abominable traffic
cease? When your country shall do its duty
in the Abolition of Slavery; and that day is
not, I trust, distant. Slavery and the slave
trade will soon be doomed in Brazil and Cu
ba- J. Candler and I propose to visit, during
a stay of about a month in the United States
of America, some of your principle cities
proceeding as far South as Washington, and
probably embarking at Boston for England,
where I hope within less than three months
from this time, once more to see my beloved
family.
With kind regards, I remain, very sincere'
ly, G. W. A.
Fugitive Slaves.—We find the follow
ing statement in the Philadelphia North
American. The facts are curious, and furnish
abundant matter for reflection:
About 12 years since a Whig member of
Congress from Kentucky proposed a new
fugitive hill, with more stringent provisions;
it was voted down at once by the democratic
majority, as wholly unneeessaty and inex
pedient. At a late peiiod in 1841-2, Gen.
Bavlv, present Chairman of the Committee
of Ways and Means in the House, made a
report in the Virginia Legislature on the
.subject, asserting, very emphatically, ihat
“the law of 1693 was as nearly perfect as it
could be, rum further legislation by
Congress was necessary.” 4. d!“ r “p‘*rt was
sanctioned by the Virginia Legislature, and,
until recently, has been universally acquiesced
in by the Soutn.
This call for further legislation for the re
covery of fugitive slaves, i 9 therefore a new
device, got up to serve th 9 purposes of the
day.
K 7» Fanny Wright is said to be preparing
a wofk foj thd Press,
The Isthmus Railroad.—The New T
Courier Enquirer thinks that it will r>
ouire l«o years for the Panama Railroad Co
in finish their mad as far as Gorgona, a d.
tance of 30 miles from Navy Bay. How lot
it will be before the road will be in operatio
between the ocpans, is, at best, a matter
conjecture, owing to the unhealthiness of i}:
climate, and the intermitting manner in whir
the work will hive to be prosecuted, becans
of the interruptions of the rainy season; hi
we shall give the company credit for gree
energy, and skillful use Df means, if the
road shall be in readiness for transportation h
four years from the time of their hreakinr
ground. This, it regards as quite too long
time to wait, and suggests tie propriety o
ihe construction of a pi ink roar! across th>
Isthmus as a temporary means of transports
tion. With suitable preparation, with prope
energy, and in proper hands, it could be con
structed in one season, at a cost not exceed
ing four hundred thousand dollars.
Gen. Taylor and the Cuban Expkdi
tion.—The promptness with which Gen.
Taylor called in requis tion the naval force o 1
the United States, as far as necessary to ar
rest the contemplated piratical aggression on
the Island of Cuba, meets with uhiversal ap
proved, it we except a few of the “baser
sort"’ who, regardless of all laws, human and
divine, look with a fiend-like p’easure upon
an expedition, the actors in which are prompt
ed by no higher motives than that of rapin'
and plundet. Bit* this promptness on the
part of the President should induce ihe Span
ish Government to use as great a degree of
clemency as consistent wiih public safely
If, as reported, they shall persist in the exer
cise of wanton cruelty towards person taken
on netural ground, guilty of no aggression l
Gen. Taylor with equal promptness and wiih
a motive equally praiseworthy, will demand
and secure their release.
Long Speeches.—The Presbyterian, in
speaking of the impropriety of long speeches
at the anniversaries, tells the following anec
dote:
“At a religious anniversary in England, a
few years ago. a verv excellent hut eccentric
clergyman was called on to close the meeting
with prayer, and as the exercises had been
protracted to an unusually late hour, and
many of the audience had already left the
house from excessive fatigue, he was request
ed to offer a short prayer, which he did iu the
words following:
“O Lord, forgive the tsdiousness of the
speakers, and the weariness of the hearers,
Amen.”
Facts about Cuba. —The population of
Cuba, in 1846, consisted of 425.767 whites.
149,226 free colored, and 323.750; total,
898,752. The length of the Island, in the
shortest line from east to west, is 680 miles.
In its narrowest part, ihe Isiand is 26 miles
broad. In the broadest part it is 135 miles
wide. It lies lengthwise in the Gulf of
Mexico, the western extremity being 135
miles from Yucatan, and its northern shore
113 miles from Florida. Thels'and contsins
45,530 square miles. The arrea of the State
of New York is 46,200 square miles.— Lock.
Courier.
LATER FROM LIBERIA
The Commercial Advertiser publishes
a letter from Grov. Roberts, of Liberia,
dated April 20, from which we make
the following extract:
I am happy to inform you that no
thing has occured since my last letter
to you to interrupt the even progress
of our public affairs. By the Liberia
packet and bark Chieftain, Mr. McLain,
sent us a small amount of funds to aid
in the purchase of territory, which we!
have turned to good account We
have just purchased three tracts of
country in the neighborhood ofGallinas
and paid the first instalment. I am
about to visit Gallinas myself, to con
clude the purchase of that famous spot,
and two or three other tracks, which
will give us all the territory lying be
tween our present north-west boundary
line and the bar; nnd will enable U 3 to
extirpate effectually the slave trade
from the whole windward coast. For
Gallinas we shall have to pay several
thousand dollars; therefore, we look
with deep concern for assistance from
Mr. McLain by the return packet.
I am. dear Sir, your obedient servant.
J. J. ROBERTS.
Mr. Duper (Fla.) gave notice that
he would offer the following as an
amendment to the Report of the Com
mittee: That should the Congress of
the United States enact any law rela
tive to the Constitution of Slaveholding
States, as set forth in the foregoing
resolutions, and should they further
refuse to adjust the controversy grow
ing out of the Slavery question on terms
satisfactory to the Slaveholding States,
they should, through their respective
Legislatures, concert and adopt mea
sures for the organization of a General
Convention, to be constituted of Dele
gates from such States, and to be in
vested with full power and authority
to prescribe the mode and manner of
redress, provided that said contempla
ted Convention should be convened
only m the event that if said Slavehold
ing States should concur in calling
for the same.
Judge Tucker, of Va., submitted the
following, which was read and re
ferred.
“Inasmuch as no pledge,on the parti
of Congress that that body will not as
sume power it granted by the Consti-!
tution, can add to the existing Consti
tutional obligation, and inasmuch as a;
light plodge not to exercise powers,
granted by the Constitution will bind
nobody, it follows that no satisfactory
security can be given by Congress to
the injured and insulted South against
the continuance, repetition and aggra
tion of wrongs and insults by North
ern fanatics and factious aspirants and
intriguers in every part of the Union
—hoping, nevertheless, that some
measure may be formed by which an
adjustment of existing difficulties may
be effected as shall at once preserve
Union, establish Equality and Justice,
and restore Peace, this Convention
sincerely perceiving the necessity of
resolving to avert the last extremity,
and that the following plan of adjust
ment or some modification of it may be
made to accomplish these objects, re
commend the same to the consideration
of their constituents and all others
whom it may concern. Let each of
the slaveholding States, by enactment
of Legislative nature, of deed of re
lease, relinquish to the non-slavehold
ing States the perfect titled to the lands
of the United States norlh of 36deg
30, and not within the limits of any
State enouncing alike its righ of pro
perty and the right of Empire.
■2d, Let each of the non-slaveholding
States make a relinquishment to Slave-!
holding States of all South of 36. 30.
3d, let the right of empire remain
dormant, as it now is, only to be
amended in new States established by
miles and bounds by the assent of the'
States proposing the right of empire, I
expressed through the the State Legis-j
lature.
F. T. MOTT.
From the Liberator.
4th, Let the admission of such new
States into the Union be as now, by
act of Congress.
sth, Let the disposal of the land to
purchasers be left as now to Congress,
and let the proceeds be paid into the
Treasury of the Unitad States.
6th, Let no gratuitous grants of pub
lic land on either side of this line be
made by Congress without the assent
of a majority of the Senators and Rep
resentatives of the State to which such
land belongs.
7th, Let all sale, of public lands be
made with (he reservation of one-tenth
of. all the gold and silver to be taken
therefrom, and let proper regulations
be made to secure the payment of the
amount.
Bth, Let the fifth be paid into the
Treasury of the United States, to be
equally divided among all the different
States, according to their Electoral
yotes in the Election of President.
9th, Let the dividend of each State
stand in the hands of the Treasurer of
State for the satisfaction of all demands
of any State which shall be adjudged
by the proper tribunal in favor of any
other State or citizen thereof.
10th, Let the tribunal be constituted
before which the owners of any fugitive
Slave may file his libel, charging that
such a Slave has escaped into a non
slaveholding State.
11th, Let a notice of such proceed
ing be served on the Governor of such
State.
c. w. B
12th, On proof of such notice, let
proceedings be had to determine whe
ther such slave did so escape into such
non-slaveholding State, whether such
slave had been restored to the owner,
and to ascertain the value of such
slave.
13th, It it be found tiiat such Slave
did so escape into such State, and has
not been returned to the owner, then
let judgment be rendered to the owner,
that the claimant ought to recover the
value so assessed with cost.
14th, Let the judgment be duly cer
tified under the seal of the Court to
the Treasurer of the United States,
and be to him authority for paying the
amount of such judgment and title
thereto; and let such payment sUnd
credit to such State into which the
slave escapes, in satisfaction for her
distributable share of the proceeds of
the money from gold and silver.
15th, Let the title of Texas to all
the territory embraced within the
limits established by the treaty of
Guadaloupe Hidalgo be acknowl
edged, ratified and confirmed.
16th, Let the non-slaveholding
States fulfil tire Constitutional obliga
tion by passing effectual laws to pro
tect the entrance provided for the re
storation of the Slaves escaping into
them.
17th, Let the Territorial Govern
ments be established to California,
Utah and New-Mexico, securing to the
inhabitants the rights of choosing their
own officers; the right of self-govern
ment and all rights except the right of
empire over the soil, in which they do
not as yet possess any right of proper
ty —the right to prohibit any citizen of
the United States from migrating, with
all their property, of every description,
and the right to tax or interfere with
the disposal of the lands therein on
such terms as Congresss may pre
scribe.
The Convention then adjuourned.
House’s Printing telegraph, from
Philadelphia to this city, worked this
long dispatch admirably. g
JRiecelloncoue.
From the N. Y. Tribune.
NASHVILLE CONVENTION.
TAXATION—REPRESENTATION.
In conformity witn the directions of
the State Convention of colored citi
zens, held in Marshall March 6th, 1850,
your committee would respectfully sub
mit the following report which has been
committed to their charge by this meet
ing:
Whereas, we, an oppressed people
who are taxed without representation,
have assembled in public for the pur
pose of bringing our grievances before
the state constitutional convention at
Lansing, which has now assembled to
revise our state constitution.
And whereas, we believe in the poli
tical creed laid down by the fathers of
our Republic, and which must lie at the
foundation of a republican government,
that taxation and representation must
cling together.
And whereas, the colored popula
tion of Michigan, numbering from one
to three thousand, many of whom are
large tax-payers to our state govern
ment, and yet they are denied the right
of voting, under the said constitution;
And whereas, we have obtained a
large list of petitioners to the above
convention, praying that the constitu
tion may be so altered as to extend to
all of its citizens, without regard to
color, the elective franchise.
Ist. Resolved, That we the dis
franchised citizens here assembled,
who believe that taxation and repre
sentation should always go together,
putting our trust in God for the success
of our cause and invoking his guidance
in our feeble struggle for political lib
erty, do pledge ourselves to do all that
we can morally, legally and pecuniari
ly to have our cause fairly presented
before the constitutional convention.
2d. Resolved, That we, as law lov
ing and law abiding citizens, will not
leave our state because of her oppres
sive laws, while the freedom of speech
is preserved or the principle ot true
democracy has an abiding place in the
state.
3d. Resolved, That we as an oppres
ed people will ever hold with grateful
remembrance such delegates at the
convention as may extend to us the
helping hand in the hour of struggle
and trial.
4th. Resolved, That while we con
sider it unjust not to be allowed even
the privilege that foreigners have
among us, who became legal voters
under our State constitution, yet we re
new our plege, relying on the aid of
Divine Providence that we shall still
labor on in our own cause, trusting in
God that justice will yet be done us,
suffrage or no suffrage; taxation or no
taxation; representation or no repre
sentation. With a God of justice on
our side, we have reason to hope that
the truth will yet prevail.
H. 8188, j
R. ALLEN, Committee.
H. GRIFFIN.
Pursuant to adjournment a meeting
was held in Detroit, at which time N.
J. Lightfoot and H. Bibb were appoint
ed bearers of petitions to the conven
tion. A vote was aiso passed that
these proceedings be published in all
of the Detroit papers, with a request
that all papers, favorable to our cause
would copy it
R. ALLEN, Sec’y
The New York Globe. —This
newspaper, now in the hands of Geo.
R. Hazewell, 162' Nassau st., N, Y.,
has put on an entire new dress and has
been materially improved both in size
and appearance. It is an ably con
ducted and spirited sheet.—Terms, $2
a year. Three copes $5.- Lewis Co.
Republican.
iCF* That delectable “JV*. F. Globe
was one of the principle instigators of
the lawless outrages ot the Rynders
gang upon the right of free discussion
at the late Anti-Slavery meeting in
New York. A fit associate and help
er of Bennett’s Herald, it would take a
great many “new dresses’’ and other
“improvements” to make any thing
decent of such a wretched concern.
A day or two after their ill behavior
at the Tabernacle, a parcel ol the
Globe’s creatures had the hardihood to
dog Frederick Douglass and his friends
about the city, and finally to commit a
gross assault upon them at the Battery;
whereupon the Globe gave a hugely
boasting and mendacious account ofthe
affair, fully justifiying the low lived
outrage.
Mr. Douglass is the editor and pro
prietor of the “North Star,” an able
Anti-Slavery paper ol the old school,
published in Rochester. We know
him well. He was formerly a slave—
is a man of rare intellectual powers,
and of umblemished morals and integ
rity. And though we cannot in all re
spects see and concur with him, we are
well assured that his aims, ends and
heart, are as much higher, manlier
and nobler than those of the poor and
paltry ignoramuses of the Globe, as the
sky is higher and handsomer than a hog
pen.
The Oldest Republic ox Eabth.
—The American Quarterly Review
contains a letter from G. W. Irving,
Esq., giving a sketch of his visit to San
Marino, a small Republic in Italy, be
tween the Appenines, the Po, and the
Adriatic. The territory of this State
is only forty miles in circumference,
and its population about 7,000. —The
Republic was founded more than one
thousand four hundred years ago, on
moral principles, industry, and equali
ty, and has preserved its liberty and
independence amid 3 aft the wars and
discords which have raged around it.
Bonaparte respected it, and sent an
embassy to express his friendship and
fraternity. It is governed by a Cap
tain Regent chosen every sis months
by the representatives of tfie people,
(sixty-six in number,) who are chosen
every six months by the people. The
taxes are light, the farm-houses are
neat, the fields well cultivated, on all
sides are seen comfort and peace, the
happy effect of morality, simplicity, lib-1
rty and justice.
new organ of the ultra
slavery party to be established at
Washington, will be called “The
Crisis.” El wood Fisher and Mr. Gar
net, of Virginia, will, it is said, be the
editors. It is reported that $40,000
have been subscribed to carry on the
enterprise. —New Englander.