Speech of Ansom Burlingame
Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the
Convention :—l respond to your call
with alacrity, and I promise you all in
the outset, tha’ I shall not detain you
long. A friend sitting at my side just
now, said that this assembly did not!
look as if the Free Soil party werej
dead. It is the resurrection and the
life ot all that is noble in the old deadj
parties. [Applause,]
I discovered a lone in this Conven
tion that tells me tuat the hour of the
time server and the trimmer has struck.
Henceforth men must be what they
seem. It will not do to say you are it)
favirr of freedom, when the only fruit
of your action is a President who in-;
vests the earning of a warrior life in
the bodies and 9ouls of men. No, the
stream must run as high as the fount:
—The resolve must precede—must
forerun the vote—and that vote must
be given with a will that shall send it
like a bullet through the very vitals of
slavery. [Cheers.]
Our difficulty has been not so much
to find men holding our doc trines, as to
find those who could stick to them in
all weather. [Several rounds of ap
plause.] The Taylor men and the
Cass men both hold to our doctrines,
but both pause and tremble before a
pledge of their fulfilment, [Cheers
Vou yourselves, in Worcester, have
furnished the most striking instance of
devotion to Freedom and defection from
it in a man who sullied the glories ot a
life in an hour, and took upon himself
the voke he taught you to spurn.
[Cheers Thank Heaven, the spirit
that buoyed him up when his eye was
sunward, still lives and treads unawed
the path he trod b* fore he lost his prin
ciples and changed his constituency.-
|Great enthusiasm.] His punishment
was severe, but it w as just, [applause]
and I tell those men who betrayed us
at Baltimore and Philadelphia,
their doom too is sealed. [Hear! hear!]
It is true their surpassing eloquence
planted in our youthful breasts the
principles we hold so dear—that they
nourished those principles there until
thev became the intensest convictions
of our youthful lives—it is true they
hive trampled them in the dust, but
shall we follow their leading and do
the same? No, we shall hold onto
them—we young men —through good
report and through evil report—teeling
a« we .go on sustained by their own
burning words in their better days, and
sustained moreover by what is better
a conscience here [placing his hand
upon his heart]- and 1 tell those men
that we shall move straight on, turning
neither to ths right hand nor to the
left, though our path of duty shall lead
directly over the gra\e of their political
aspirations i Irrepressible applause.]
Why, all unprepared, a S we were,
for their treachery, we went out on to
the brown hills of the Old Bay State
God bless her —and we heat both of
their miserable nominee* before the
people. [-Cheers, j e sent one
down lower thsn plummet ever sound
ed. (Unbounded and prolonged en
thusiasm.) W« have tied up the other
hand and foot at Washington
(Cheers.) We have seized the halanct
of power in nearly all the Northerr
Slates, and we hold it in Congress to
day and we mean to use it like mer
holding in our hands the sacred inter
ests of humanity, acting sometimes wit!
this Party, and sometimes with that
but always with those persona who arc
most in favor of Freedom.
Why, 1 think I behold before roe;
THE NORTH STAR.
already in session, the next Congress.
(Sensation.) The Representative from
Worcester who stands at the head of
the alphabet in more sensei than* one,
(Cheers, enthusiasm, waving of hats,
and repeated rounds of applause, con
tinued for several minutes.) sitting
side by side with the accomplished
Representative from Boston, who
stands at the foot of the alphabet io
more Mates than one. (Laughter and
cheers.) 1 think 1 behold the Judge
firing his resolutions into that quailing
Congress like a revolver. 1 think 7
see the accomplished gentleman, the
Representative from Boston, vainly en
deavoring to sustain in that Congress
his Janus faced pol.cjr; I see him
tiring out and finally behold him wip
ing the perspiration from those fine
features, which I will aay are all that
is left to remind ua of a once noble
ancestry, (Continuous applauM and
laughter.)
A friend met me yesterday in the
street. Said he "Suppose California
comes in as a State with an Anti-slave
ry Constitution.” I replied ‘‘We will
thank God and take courage. We will
sing songs of jubilee in all the valleys
of MassachuMtts, and then collect the
forces of Liberty and heave them like
an ocean wave upon the next salient
point of slavery—(Cheers)—we will
strike the fetters off the District of
Columbia, (Cheers) —we will repeal
the Jaw of ’93—we will destroy the
inter-State slave trade, and stretch our
arms of power and protection ova ther
sea from pole to pole, (Cheers) —in
short, we will put the Government ac
tively and perpetually on the side of
Freedom, (cheers.)
And what do we mean by this?
Why, we mean that if a citizen of the
United States with a skin as dark as
the purposes of slavery—(Applause)—
if he shall apply to the Secretary of
State for the protection to which a citi
zen of the United States is entitled, hi"
shall have it. (Great sensation.) If
there is a usage against it, that usage
shall be changed. (Enthusiasm.) If it
is a controverted question, one of doubt
as they 9ay it is, then we will give that
doubt to Liberty, (Cheers) according
to common law and common sense,
v Repeated cheers.)
We mean by putting the Government
perpetnally on the side of Freedom,
that if a boy educated in the Free-
Schools of Worcester, shall apply and I
be sustained in that application fer an j
appointment in the Navy (manned
principally from New England,) that,
his claims shall not be set aside in favor
of ir son of one of the first families in
Virginia we mean, that if a rascal
•hall rob our letters of their contents,
either of money or affection, in South;
Carolina, he shall suffer the same pen-;
ally he would have to suffer in Massa
chusetts for the same offence.
(Cheers. And if a citizen of Massa-,
cliusetts shall be imprisoned in the jail j
at Charleston, arid we send our most j
venerable man as attorney there to try i
his rights, there shall stand between his
gray hairs and death something more 1
than a beautiful Rnd heroic daughter, i
[Redoubled applause.] We mean to
make slaveholding primu facie evidence
against a man’s capacity to hold office, j
We will see whether there is not a
man among the eight hundred thou-,
sand non-slaveholding voters of the
South fit to hold office, as well as among
the 113,000 slaveholders. If we can
get a non-slaveholder in the Union, we
will not take a slaveholder.
How shall we achieve these things?
We shall do it by calling together such
large hearted Conventions as this—we
will do it by going out on the hills of
Massachusetts and speaking God’s
truth to honest men—speaking th%t
truth manfully with a proper regard to
the feelings of our candid opponents
—but coming down like the hammer of
Thor upon those “Free Soil” men who
will agree with us by our firesides,
that Slavery is a curse, but who will go
among the slaveholders and attempt to
show by their Bibles that the institu
tion is of divine origin, thus attempting
to involve the Author of all good in
their own criminal inconsistency. Aye,
the great God, who thundered from
Sinai opposition to all oppression—who
suspended the laws of nature for the
sake of delivering an oppressed people
—who smote with death in one night
two and a half millions of the first born
of fifteen millions of Egyptians—who
dealt out thunder and hail and dark
ness against the oppressor —who made
the Nile run blood all day long, pur
pling the great Mediterranean for thirty
miles—who sent plagues to persecute
a whole nation —and all to show his
abhorrence of a servitude, which,
compared with American slavery, is as
light compared to darkness. (Tre
mendous burst of enthusiastic ap
plause.)
How shall we achieve these things?
Why, we are three hundred thousand
strong, and glowing with the faith with
in us —as enthusiastic as the Crusa
ders, and as tenacious of principle as
were the followers of Cromwell—think
you we shall not make ourselves heard
and feltr
We will study our principles by the
light of day, we will write them down
by the midnight lamp. We will give
them the wings of the morning—wa
will flash them across the telegraphic
wires. We will preach them in con
ventions inLyceums in short, we will
kindle every fireside in the land againsl
that system which invades all the sacred
ties of domestic life- make
the pulpits—the laat always—our pul
pits to thunder against it* Our histo
rians shall write againsl it. Our poeti
aye aur poets—our poets—alaverj
never had a poet (enthusiastic ap
plauM) they shall write a ioftiei
straw. They srs not oaty with Of it
RIGHT IS OF NO SEX—TRUTH IS OF NO COLOR—GOD IS THE FATHER OF US ALL, AND ALL WE ARE BRETHREN.
sentiment but with us in organization
—our Bryant, and Longfellow, end
Lowell, [a voice, “And Whitier”]
—yea, and Whittier with his heart of
oak and tongue of fire. Whittier it
hare. We will demand, in short, the
same courtesies for Freedom that they
have for Slavery. If John C. Calhoun
has the right to come here and to say
we are disunionists, Charles Snmner
shall have the right to go to South
Carolina and prove him one by the re
cord. (Applause.)
If a slaveholder shall come here—his
pockets a blacksmith’s shop, and him
self a miniature arsenal, and in under
taking to visit our New England Man
chester, shall find in the cars a person
with a black akm, and if he do not
choose to ride in the same car with him,
let him walk to Lowell on foot. If be
calls our Lowell girls slaves, as some
slaveholders have falsely styled them,
let him tell it openly it he dare to them,
and we can safely leave his punishment
to their indignant tongues and flashing
eyes. If a slaveholder comes to you
and says, “Introduce me to your wives
and daughters,’’ say “No.” Say “A
than who sells wives and daughters
shall not be intrusted with the honor of
our homes.” [Sensation.] Say to him,
I will not introduce yeu among my
little ones, lest you may instil into thair
youthful minds sentiments born of the
bottomless pit.” [Good.] i
We will do here as the celebrated
Irish O’Connell did in the streets of
London—refuss to shake their slave
stained hands. A slaveholder can
hardly be shaken by the hand among
the better classes in England. We
will make the same sentiments prevail
here.
A word more and lam done. [Go
on, go on.] Why, we let loose the
vials of our wrath upon a person for
selling rum, but his business is saiutly
compared with slaveholding. A rum
seller makes a man a slave of his own
free will, but the slaveholder does it by;
force, shuts him out forever from the;
sweet cheering voice of Father Mathew,
who may wish to raise him from his de-:
based condition. [True.] You that
can beard the rumseller who is weak,
go brave the slaveholder who stands
behind and looms above him.
I invoke the assistance of my youth
ful brothers in this holy crusade. The
victory must come, if it come at all,
from your fiery hearts, for men in
middle life are engrossed in the pursuits
of business, and tremblingly hug the
shores. The more advanced send down
their anchors of hope and -turn rever
ently to the past. But youth, with eagle
eye and lion heart, looks forward and
upward—courting the uncertainties of
the future, defiant of its dangers. (Ap
plause.) We have tha young men,
th-m, by the necessity of their natures.
(Yes.)
Thanking you, gentlemen, and Mr.
President, with all my heart for the kind
manner in which you have listened to
the few desultory remarks I have
made, I will give way, and allow you
to call to the stand some person more
capable of doing justice to the great;
cause we have in hand. (Cheers and
applause.)
PRO-SLAV FRY THEOLOGY.
Slaveholders and their defenders,
having been supplied at the hand of
Northern clergymen with Biblical pro
tections for their system and sanctions
for their crime, are daily growing more
devout and constant in their appeal to
the Bible, more sanctimonious in their
pious twang about the ‘dealings of Pro
vidence’ and the ‘authority of Moses
and the Apostles,’ and more bold and
shameless in charging upon God the
authorship and patronage of slavery.
The extract below, from an influential
Southern journal, will give an idea of
this 'growth in grace,’ and at the same
time a portrait of the popular religion
of the South, which we foster and
cherish by church fellowship and min
isterial intercourse.
The following is an extract from an
essay on the evils of Abolitionism and
the glories of Slavery, by a correspon
dent of the Augusta (Ga.) RtpttblU:
The writer should be hunted up, and
the title of D. D. conferred on him by
some one of our Northern Theological
Schools. He is ahead of Dr. Rice
and Dr. Junkin, when we last heard
from them with regard to the ‘patri
archal institution;’ but there [a no tel
ling how far they may have progressed
in pro-slavery theology since ISIS.
We invite any, who are not blind to
madness, to look into the holy, wise
and merciful work of the beneficent
i Creator. And in defending the char
acter of the Christian’s God, as the
auihor of Southern Slavery, we only
ask thst its history may be traced. Go
back, then, into the wilds of Africa,
and see two of her savage tribes en
gaged in the din of deadly battle. The
one, and perhaps not the aggressor,
proves victorious in the conflict. And
now the broodiog spirit of the God ol
mercy says to the conquering party, do
not butcher your captives, though they
may have unjustly assailed you, and,
if conquriog, might Jhnve put you te
i death, and paved their yards with yout
skulls, as many savage tribes of youi
country do with their captured enemies:
but do you act upon the principle ol
mercy and benevolence. Make il»ei
your servants—-tun* them nte your
money,—mad then they will be arete.
ful to von, and you will love and pro
ject them. The Divine influence pre
vailed over their savage minds, Um
1 poor captives, destined to destruction
were spared by their conquer©™, *nd
became their hied aod submissive
slaves But to go badk to the caae ro
{corded In the ninth of Genesis, when
&ÜBMXI hit c«a»»,
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1849.
I whom Ham's descendants ate sub
jected to the prophet, arose, had
committed a most atrocious offence el
some kind, was it not wondrous mercy
in God, instead of the decapitation ol
Ham, to simply punish him in CantUi
the first son, perhaps, born to him aftai
l the offence, by flattening his band,
kinking his hair, and blackening bis
akin, and turning him loose, with ku
mind in chains, to be a servant of mp
vants to his brethren, thus giving him
time and opportunity for repentance,
upon the same principle that the Nan
Englanders confine their free negroes
in their Penitentiary, instead of haqf
-3 them for corns#. Nsv is the wtsdetfl
mercy of God less marked with in
finite benevolence, in allowing thesa
captive sons of Canaan to be trana
ported from bondage in their own land
of degradation and darkness, to our
country, while their enlightenment, and
religious opportunitias, would not only
1 elevate th6ir civil character, but se
cure to them gospel privileges, through
which thousands of them have rejoiced
in past ages, and thousands will rejoien
in redeeming mercy, in every genera
tion, down to the judgment trump, at
the sound of which, we are told, thsf
every bondman, and every freeman,
together with men of every rank and
society, (found in impenitency) will say
to the mountains and rocks, fall on us,
and hide us from Him that sitteth on
the throne, and from the wrath of the
Lamb, for the great day of his wrath is
come, and who shall he able to stand?
I
But putting the institution upon the
footing that many of the forefathers of
our slaves were kidnapped, though the
avaricious dark hearted thieves 'meant
it for evil, God meant it for good.’
And while he holds those avaricious
man-stealers responsible to the deci
sions of the eternal judgment, he has
greatly improved the condition of
Joseph, by providentially causing him
to be thrown into our honest possession,
and as the steward of such a trust, we
feel bound to take good care of our
charge: and God forbid that the van
dalism of Yankee and British fanati
cism should bring against us any iniqui
tious Pharoah to wield the sceptre of
oppression over them, and in after
generations. Your correspondent would;
insinuate that the fact of our Southern!
men voting in Congress to prohibit the;
importation of slaves from Africa, and
also to prevent the extension of Slave- j
ry to some of the territories, denoted
their disapproval of the institution of,
Slavery. They voted against the
Slave-Trade, not because the condition
of the outdoor slaves would not be
vastly bettered, but mainly, because
it wasbecoming a rather strong tempta
tion to the iniquitous sin of Yankee and
British kidnapping.
And we think your correspondent's
attempt to use as precedents, to entire
ly justify the unrestrained overleaping
of the constitution, those -compromises
voted for by Southern men, and sanc
tioned by Southern Presidents, for the
sake of the Union, and for the peace
of the North, —but one out of many
instances of proof that the spirit of Ab
olitionism is marked by the character
istic trait of basest ingratitude. We
hesitate not to assert that all those
compromises, admitted by the South to
conciliate the North, were founded in
injustice. For though we hold that
every State who might feel it to be her
interest to put out of her limits negro
slavery, should be allowed to do it, if
compatible with the rights of her citi
zens and neighbors. Yet all territory
becoming the property of the United
States should be held in common by all
her citizens, and that ail should be en
titled, without restraiut, to participate
in its occupancy. And why should not
the people of the South, with their por
perty, and, with the God of justice and
mercy overshadowing them, with the
protecting banner af his truth, go into
New Mexico carrying the flag of the
gospel, to unfurl to her inhabitants,
debased far below our negroes in civil
condition and religious opportunities!
Ah, we ask in truth and justice why
not? And the sound of this question
having reverberated upon the zephyrs i
of the far West, the echo, as the voice
of God, back from the mountains ofj
California, thunder forth in truth and
justice, why not?
I have no pretension to prophetic
vision, but, upon the showing of your
correspondent, our slaves are greatly
prospering, and the God of heaven has
placed net only New, but Old Mexico,
in such geographical and clirnaticai
1 juxtaposition to our sunny South, that
I know net, but wheu enlargement for
our slaves may reuire, k# who has,
1 ever favored those walking under the
banner of truth and rigbteousneas, may
open the way in peace and good-will
too, for his peculiar institution of slave
ry to carry its blessings still farther
West,
Ah, why wc ask, should it not he
destined to past over thv battle fields
i of Mexico to the Halls of the Moote
zumas, bearing thither this glorious
gospel banner, whose motto is glory to;
Godin the highest, on earth peace,!
good will toward man. There not only j
to give to all classes access to the true,
religioo. to raise the poor Peon to eai
squalitv with our slaves in point of re
ligious privileges, but to un.kaclda his
mind fettered m superrtition andele
vale him as a descendant of J*£*•*”>
i to a position in the scale of inteUectu
alitv fir above the point beyond which
the eons of Canaan can aver Has, with
God’s prophetic doom stamp* »poa
their physical and intellectual organs.

i Poutmim— Tn» .poUUMM w Ik*
oflapringof good aUutt and ««*d
h..rT\ b*. from th*
wDMMMof lop, M »l« 8«W«f
ia from nature’! own fragrant ran*.
Yet a good heart needs cukivatioa to be
r productive of good manners. How often
hare my own feelings boon injured by
a rough, uncalled for remark, when
kind words could bare been as easily
•pokes! There are tunes for sarcasm
I and rebuke, but these, in no ease,
should be so frequent as to form a .habit
;of blunt and careless speaking. Seme
are led to such a course by attempting
to be frank and open hearted, forget
ting that the meet severe and snwal
i come truths caa be ottered in the kiad
est and meat aelita laaguaga. “Wards
are empty,” but important things. One
heedless saying may daslrsy a valuable
friendship, may sever hearts whose
union would have been a blessing
through time. It is useless tossy “it
was spoken in sport” —a spark of firs,
unintentionally thrown upon powder,
will ignite it as soon as one thrown in
tentionally. The n(Otto of friendship
should be, kind feeling*, kind words, and
kind ocl*. Golden Rule.
Prom the N. Y. Tribune.
AN AMERICAN SLA YE IN ENGLAND. I
London, England, June *l4, 1649. j
Dear Sir: —l witnessed an incident
a few days ago which 1 have no doubt
will be interesting to you. Being at 271
New-Broad-*!, I was introduced to a
fugitive from American Slavery. He
was a man about my color and sire.
He could not tell his age, but I should
think he was 45. He had been the
shive of William Hunter of New Or
leans. He attempted to fly from Slave-,
ry about two years since, and was
overtaken, received one hundred and
sixty lashes, and wore an iron collar six
months. His next opportunity occur
red to get on board of an English ves
sel. After they had been out three
weeks, he was discovered in the hatch
way, where he was concealed.—The
Captain appeared to be enraged; he
ordered a sand-bag to be tied to his
feet, and said he would throw him
overboard; that freak over, he ordered
him to be tied up, saying be would flog
him.—When all was ready, he went to
him, looked at his back, and said,;
“Well I don't see any place left to'
flog!” When he arrived at Liverpool,'
he ordered him to be kept concealed
until night, and then he gave him a
suit of clothes, four shillings in money,!
and started him for London. He came
to London and presented himself before
the Lord Mayor, who was then sitting
in Court; he gave him some tammy out
of the poor=hWrfifld ordered lodgings to
be provided for him. The next day he
was brought to the Anti-Slavery office,
and will go from here to one of the
British islands. One fact in this case
has struck me with great force—l may
say alarming force—that an English
Captain should hide a fugitive from
American Slavery after he gets into
Liverpool! Here you see American
Slavery reaching forth it blood-stained
hand all over the world, feeling after
its victim, and seizing by the throat all
who dare aid him. Brother, I tell you
we need not fly from American Slave
ry to any part of the world. We must
meet it on the Continent and conquer it
there, or we are done men, go where j
we may. Yours truly,
J. W. C. PENNINGTON.
Pastor Shiloh Presb. Church, N. Y. j
THE MORAL TEACHING OF THE I
gallows.
A correspondent of the Western (Ex-J
»ter) Times write#:—Allow me to 'corn-;
nunicate to you my personal observa
tions of impressions ofthe effect which
he execution of James Landick, on
Monday last, had upon the vast multi
.ude assem oled to enjoy the spectacle.
need not stop to inform you how the
rast throng assembled, nor even to in-;
dicate the gay caravans with music, i
not of the lugubrious sort, but of the'
pipe and fiddle variety, which came
from fardistnets not yet penetrated
by the iron road. Tha crowd—esti
mated at 40,000, in clothing reserved
for holiday occasions, and in high
good humor—had plenty of standing
room, and awaited the event in decor
ous, though cheerful quietude. I
looked in vain for a serious or thought
ful expression: the peopje ware out tOj
enjoy a holiday and a sight. I did net 1
lee any respectable people, although I
bad ihe honor of converting with a cler
gyman ofthe Established Church who
bad come ‘to «ee the fellow scragged.”
I did not feel respectable myself; I fok
serious and sad, disgusted and harden
ed: and when the victim appeared,and
•hook his head mournfully at the crowd
1 fell it the most pathetic reproach.
While the mockery of a religious rite
wes continued, there wee e general
hush; the heart of that greet crowd
beet tor one minute with pity and sym
pathy for that poor, ignorant, bad man,
who had taken his last look st the
sun and the earth, sod bed request
ed the cep to be instantly drawn
over hit face, in shame, for himself end
for tile people. I beard low muttered
expressions of on all sides as, ‘Poor
devil, 1 ‘Poor follow, I—but, 1 —but, although I
•ought for them, yet found I no uuncor
tioos oil ahhoreace of bis crime, or
Mtwfsciioo at his foie. -‘Vengeance
it miae,” sailh the law—e waraiag
to evil deers will I Make this me*.
Horror of the lew as a mvatkal ogre,
and sympathy with a murderer, is ffie
resalt. When it was ell over with
the unhappy man, the crowd returned
ia a cheerfiU, ha^y^jocMkceedncted
in the pieces where intoxi
cating drmk* and illicit pteaeoraa are
•old. Tim scenes which followed the
awful and warning spectacle are am
for description, though they are ah**-
E3SHKE3S
premeditated death m bra tabling sad
inexpedient, and, as an example, per
fectly nugatory. Eras whilst L*n*
dick was being violently dismissed from
this lift, as a warning and example,
an old companion of his, and one of
the witnesses, as I understand, at his
trial, named Cano, was undergoing ex
amination, within sight and horsing of
the jlsath scene, on a charge of having
committed a burglary since the trial.
THE ACCOUNTABILITY OF
SLAVERY.
The responsibility which they as
sume who undertake to control the con
duct of others, is a fearful one. This
kind of responsibility slavery always
imposes on masters. Thsy who vol
untarily assume such a relation to oth
ers shauld have brave hearts, as it is
not unlikely that occasions may arise
in which great sternness and rigor,
and perhaps cruelty, will be exacted
of them, for the effect of which, they
must be held accountable to a Power
higher than of man.
Whoever undertakes to control oth
ers necessarily makes himself acconn
tab!s|for the conduct of those under him.
This cannot be set aside. It ad
heres of necessity to the position of a
master. The servant cannot exert his
own independent volition, and where
there is no freedom of volutions reason
teaches that accountability cannot ex
ist. If the accountability of a human
being is affected or lessened, he who
lessees it must, to the extent which it is
lessened, assume accountability. It is
impossible to avoid this conclusion. A
man is accountable for his own con
duct only because he himself deter
mines what that conduct shall be. If he
voluntarily step in and assumes the con
trol of another, he necessarily, by that;
act, assumes to himself the accounta
bility of all such conduct as he requires.
What a fearful thing it is thus volun-i
tarily to assume accountability in the 1
sight of Heaven for the conduct and
character of others! All-minded, true,
baarted men feel that to be accounts-'
ble for themselves is s perilous thing,
and he who adds accountability for oth
ers to his accountability for himself,
places himself in a position of greatdis-!
advantage and great danger.
A Kentucky master owns a negro
child. Ha brings that (child up in a
state of moral and mental blindness—
in consequence of that blindness, the
child commits many blunders and is
guilty of many crimes. Can the child
b« haMseevmiWMe for the cfTtnes
which resulted from the control which
his master exerted over him If a man
oould render his neighbor insane and
could induce him, while in a state of in
sanity, to cut the throat of a third per
son, no one would hesitate to excuse
the madman and to hold the man who
caused the insanity and induced the
murder responsible. Now, although
the master who holds a slave may not
be to that fatal extent accountable for
the slave’s transgressions, those vices
and crimes perpetrated by the slave
that are directly, clearly and only
traceable to the power exerted over
him by the master, must be charged
on the master. We cannot see how
masters can escape accountability for
the conduct of slaves to the extent
that the will of the slave is directly un
der their control. If thorp was no oth
er objection to slavery tfaftn that it im
poses additional accountability on the
master, that consideration; of itself,
ought to deter all reflecting men Iroro
involving themselves in its perils.
All parents fool that they are accoun
table to some extent for the conduct
and character of their children. This
conviction co-operating witH paternal
affection, induces them to studiously
endeavor to enlighten the hearts and
instruct the minds of their offspring in
relation to subjects of the most solemn
importance. All agree that, if a father
•eta an example of drunkenness to hie
son, end the son adopts U, and lives a
nuisance and dies in a gutter in conse
quence, the father csnnotjbe guiltless.
Or if a child is debarred by the perent
from acquiring a knowledge of sound
moral principles, and in consequence
of hie ignorance of those principles
leads an ungodly lift the parent cannot
bo excused. He is nearly as gailty
for the child’s ungodliness as if
he had committed it himself. Those
parents who strive to discharge their
doties to their offspring, are net ac
countable for the conduct of their eff
spring, while they who, in conse
quence of their vile examples, incite
their children to the commission of sin,
or by keeping their children in a state
ot mental and moral ignorance, footer
habits fatal to their integrity, era very
generally and vary justly looked upon
as involved in the guilt of their off
spring.
Now k is precisely aa true that mas
ten who control the character end
conduct of tbeir slaves, thereby ere ac
countable for the character end con
duct of their children, who, in cooee
quence of parental control, ere led into
vice end uiiqoky.
In view, then, of the responsibili
ties wbichbla very imposes on masters,
is not thaidnership of a human being
an accountable being, an awful trust'
If good men shrink front the responsi
bility of their own thoughts and deeds,
how much more ought they la eknddoi
to assn mo the responsibility af thi
thoughts mad acts of others? -ftai
vilk cisaiwr.
ICpWhen Cariyie was asked by t
young person to pewit oat what court*
of readiag ha thought bad to meki
him a man, rcpliad ta his chemelons
tie Maser:—»b i* eet eat, by ksaki
tael! Juaata a aae Study to 6
'ftuUaUrrksMTer Uaa| is /our aetaa
MCI, Fi-aLisas*’.*"
WHOLE NO. 94.
HtnatMO, Um lad now, you find either
expressly or tacitly laid down at your
charge—that i« your paw, stand to at
like a true soldier. Silently devour
tbe many chagrins of it—all aituatioos
have many, and see yon aim not to qmt
it, without doing all that is in your
duty.”
From tbe Si. Y. Kvemaf Pint
MORF. INCEXDIARIF* 4T TNK
torrß.
f s
We recently copied from a V trguiia
paper, certain humane threat* against
the editors and publisher* of sort am’a
Magazine, and all in any wise connect*
ed with it. One person especially, the
writer ot a tale published in the Maga
zine, in which a negro is allowed to
justify himself dor escaping from the
peculiar institution, was earnestly in
vited to make his appearance south of
the Potomac, and was assured if he did
so, he would be murdered by a web
tbe instant he became known. A lady
of this city, of distinguished literary
reputation, stated to be connected with
the Magazine, was at the same time
warned, under the penalty of outrage,
not to present herself in those lati
tudes. It has since beau discovered
that the |author| of tliis obnoxious tala
is a Southern incendiary, by the name
of Wiley, a native and citizen of North
Carolina, a graduate of her State Uni
versity, and a practising lawyer in hat
courts.
The South Carolinian.. a print as
sharp as any, even in the State where
it is published, on the scent of an in
cendiary, has an article upon the case
of Mr. Wiley, from which we learn
that he is to be required to give rea
sons and expl&natjona for permitting
Wild Bill, who personates the charac
ter of the fugitive slave to talk in tbe
heretical manner which has excited ae
much alarm and indignation. But tbs
South Carolinian is fearful that the un
fortunate tala writer will be unable te
satisfy ‘his fellow-citizens, whom he
has ao grievously outraged.' The
worst part of the w hole story is, that ta
the dialogue, in which Wild Bill ax
dresses his sentiments to Walter, an
other character in the slory, on tbs
subject of escaping from bondage, he
does not make Walter's refutatioa at.
all satisfactory.
This is very unfortunate, ami, wt
fear beyond remedy; for every body
will admit, that if Wild Bill ie a person
of any acuteness and viger of intellect,
he will so apply those faculties in the
argument upon the propriety of rnnmng
away from slavery as to render any at
tempt to reply quite futile And that
he has employed a very forcible style
of reasoning on the subject, it is evi
dent from the sensation of his conver-'
sation with Walter has occasioned. A
North Carolinia editor, who aeema to
be a neighbor and acquaintance of Mr.
Wiley, and who is altogether lass san
guinary and obdurate than his brothel
of The South Carolinian, proposes te
postpone the hanging of his friend, un
til he has had the opportunity of finish
ing his story; for he suggests that, ni
ter all, the tale may have a vary fit
ting catastrophe. W r iid Bill may be
floored in the argument by Walter,and
then tbe fugitive colored logician may
be caught and strung up: and so all
end happily.
What is to be done with Wiley,
becomes a vary important question
Hie treatment will form a precedent in
the code Lynch, which may exercise a
great iufluence in the future adminis
tration of it. Hie crime ih certainly
far more flagrant than that with which
Barrett stands charged; for the docu
ment signed Brutus, which this un
lucky person is said to have put into the
mails, makes no reference whatever to
slavery, but is simply a ealm address
to the whits citizens ef South Carolina,
showing them that they live underran
aristocratical despotism, and are de
nied a portion of their political right#
This is denounced as a 'celebrated
incendiary document' and a respecta
ble citizen of a free State is threatened
with death for attempting to circulate it
through the government’s mails. Of
course if they ceuld catch the author
of that address, he would be account
dated with a short shift and a long rope
Mr. Wilev, therefore, stands in a ve»>
critical position, and it would net sur
prise us to hear, by the next naml.
that tbe services of the Hon. Mr. Ketch
now in the United Stales Senate, had
been brought into requisition, and the
first indiscreet story-teller had been
hung up on the first limb;' and if tbe
bones of Thomas Jefferson should be
exhumed, and suspended by that body,
tbe memory ef that prince of incendia
ries would, at length have received tbe
crowning honor to which the fanaticism
of the hour in Carolina and Virginia
no doubt, considers it fully entitled.
it strikes many as a singular circum
stance that all three of the person# who
are at this time exciting the leers
and tbe violent passions of the more
bigoted partisans of slavery in tbo
South are themselves natives of that
region. 'i*he most dreaded and detest
ed of them, tbe author of tbe polit
ical tract signed Brutus, *'~v
man, bom in South Carolina, and,
until within a few yuan, a resident
preacher in that Stats. Mr. Barrett,
Si as we are led to believe in a recent tot
i ter, is a native of Virginia, and ban
not boon many years a eitmenef a
freo State; and to tbo ‘OoodOld Notth
State,’ tbo South is indebted for the
i gift of WBey. This is a fact that may
i very well awalmn inquiry in respect
ilthe tendencies of so isstitution, tbe
most foraadsMe enemies of which are
produced in tbe midf* ot* coemwailiee,
i where it npfiars the mum securely
guarded bylaw and by the vigilance of
those interested in preserving it.
Receipts for the New York State Vigilance Committee
State of New York - S. Griggand oth
ert», Ijevanna. 6.00, Friends, StoWs Squire,
3.00, S. Brigham, Vienna, 1.00. r‘lends,
per B. S. Halsey, Ithaca, 5.00, D. |f.
K’nne, Ovid, 5 00, per W. Stickney, CVt
astota, 2.00, Colld, in Flushing, 4.00, O.
S. Penfield, Delhi, 10 00, per Her. J. King,
Richfield, 6.00, J. Ellmore, Thereea, 1.00,
Mrs. S. Danturth, Lafayette, 5,00, tier L.
D. Smith, West Winfield, 27.00, B. Perry,
Schaghticoke, 2.00, L. \V. Fellows. Dur
ham. 2.00, S. Howland, D. Thomas. B.
Gould, and C. Howland, Aurora, each 5.00,
other friends, Aurora, 30.00, Fnenda, per W.
Wagoner, I station, 10.00, per W. M
Clarke, Syracuse, 5.00, Friends, Homer,
11.00, M. Hamblin, Pnon Van, 10.00, in
all, $164.00.
New-York Cite.—S. Leeds, 10.00, A.
Lane, W. E. Wluting, L. Tappau, t). S-
Wtlliaraa, each, 5.00, Dr. T. Hitter, 1.50,
J. C. Gray, 1. Wnght, and 8. T. Sanger,
each, 3.<W, W. H. Pillow, 2.50, A G
West, 2.00, Pearson, 1.25, Mrs. Pm
field, 1.00, Dr. A. S. Ball, 1 00, J L. Kn
sign, 1.00, —in all, $57.25.
Massachusetts. —W. Rotch, Newbury,
port, 50.00, D. C. Joy, Northampton
10.00, W, C. Taber, New Bedford, ID.iK)
N. Barney, Nantucket, 10.00. Hunt A \N ii
der, N. Bndgawater, 10.00, M Faxon, do
3.00, E. E. Bennett,do, 1.00. J. M. Wilder
Hanover, 5.00, A. Curtis, East Abmgton
5.00. P. Shaw, North Abmgton, 1,00, N
Shaw, South Weymouth, 2.00, Cash, 75
cents, —in all, 107.75.
Connecticut. —Rev. G. W Perkins
Meriden, 10.00, Dea. Hull, Clinton, 5.00
S Higgins, do. 2.00, H. Curtis A J. Parker
Meriden, each. 1.00, .FBraddock, West Mer
iden, 1.00, Cash, 50, cents,—in all, $2O 50
Pennsylvania.—Henry Grew, Philada.
5 00, D. Neall, do. 5.00.
Illinois.—M. AL. Petiengill, 5.00.
New Jersey.—J. Howe,Jarsey City, 1 .00
TOTAL —$365. 50.
ff~pOf the above, $11.75 was voluntary
collected in Massachusetts and Connecticut
by our esteemed brother Alanson Work, o
Hartford, Conn. Considerable sums have al
bo been collected by our General Agent, Wm
L. Chaplin, E. M. R. Glenn, and others
which will lx; duly acknowledgad when tu.li
reported to the Treasurer.
William Darned, Treas’r.
No. 61 John Street.
Note. —Several of the above donation!
wete accompanied by letters from friends it
various parts of the country, of a very grati
fying character, and showing a hearty co-op
eratlon in the great objects of the Committee
The truly Christian spirit, and eminent!)
practical character of the following, is our U'
pology for giving it that publicity, for which
we are awaTe the venerable writer did noi
intend it:
Utii mo. 13- l»4y.
Wm. Harnkd
Dear Friend—Since the receipt oi
the Vigilance Committee’s Circular, two
weeks ago, I have been diligently engaged in
endeavoring to respond to the call, and have
found a greater degree, of sympathy with
suffering humanity than my appeals met with
last spring. And in order to excite
an interest for the oppressed in the breasts ol
the dear chiidien, 1 solicited them to add
their shillings and pence. The result is the
enclosed draft (for Fifty Dollars), which
1 thought preferable to bills, both as regards
safety of conveyance, and because of the dis
count on some of them. My whole-hearted
friend, E. D T., assisted me; as my age
(orer eighty years) and consequent infirmitie?
disqualify me lor much active service. 1
would recommend you to address the nexl
Circular to her, instead of to one whose use
fulness is pretty mueh over.
Surely the example of this “Mother ic Is
rael” will arouse the dormant eneigies of ou
numerous friends who have not replied n
our numerous appeals, and prompt them im
mediately to Go and no likewise.
New-York, Sept. 25, 1949.
Outrage upon a Free Colored Man.
ft'or respondent;# ol tlw Boston Republican.]
Passing one of the principal streets of Cinci
r.nati last Sunday, towards sundown, a color
ed woman hao attracted quite a crowd, b
whipping very severely a little girl of hers
and when remonstrated with about it, sh
earnestly asserted her right to do it becatis
she had bought her at a g.eat price Sh
did not claim the right to correct it as tli
mother of the child, but based her right upo
a purchased the article, and that arlicle he
own daughter. I learned on inquiiv, tha
the woman, a little while ago, was a slave ii
Vicksburgh, Miss., and had earned uione;
•nough, by extra effort at washing, to tun
herself and three children for about 1 200
and had left the father of the two colorei
children in bondage, while the lather of th<
white one is still m Vicksburg, but not
slave. She asserted that $2,500 was tin
price paid. Here she follows her old voca
lion, taking in washing, although she receive;
hut one third as much here for the sarin
amount of work as she received in Vicksburg
Last evening 1 stepped into a barber’s shop
and learned a fact touching slavery from tin
lips of the man on whose person the wioof
was done. A very well behaved and ge.mce
colored man, aged 28, who had traveller
much in ihe Slave Slates in the employmen
df Major A J. Donaldson, and one or twi
other distinguished gentlemen, went dovit
I he Mississippi river to New Orleans, as bar
her on board the steamboat Niagara, a yea
ago. As soon as the boat fastened to ihi
wharf or Levee, an officer came on beau
looking for free negroes. He met the barber
and demanded his papers, and was told In
had no papers, but was free born in the sian
of Ohio. He was immediately seized am
ordered to ll** lock-up. The Caplaiu of tin
boat interposed, vouching for his being a free
•man, and offering to become bound in air
sum, from $5,000 to $15,000, that the color
•d man, William K, 11. Brown, should re
main constantly on board the boat while shi
was at New Orleans, and that he should te
turn up the river with the boat, l ine woul<
not do, and the intelligent barber was liurriet
away m confinement, where he was hep
eighty-seven days before his Cincinnati friend;
could learn his whereabouts; all his letter:
being intercepted or strangely miscarried
At last Judge McLean and Col. Wm. K
Bond, formerly and lor many years a Mem
her of Congiess from this '.State, and uovi
Surveyor of this port, in whose family tin
barber was born, and for whom lie wai
named, interposed, paid all expenses am
charges, and had him released His hills o
hoard and washing, Ar., used up his ku o
•bavmg tools and spare clothes, which he sob
to raise money, and aside from his time mu
•offering* of mind, his costs amounted u
•bout 9250, which ho is labor.ng hard u
••cure and is refunding the money advance
by Judge McLean and Col. Bond.
Other and numerous facta like ihe above
daily le*rn here, and yet there is a strong
pro-slavery feeling m this place, because mei
ind a for tbeit interest to be on good term
with the many slaveholder# who come here u
do business. The light* of man are fu;g*i
t«n in the pursuit of the C»o«l of th:s w. rld
tkt evtrlatung dollar.. How much longer wd
the people tolerate, in this Luton, such out
rages upon American citutens V\ list
mockery to get up meetings in Lmcinnau ti
sympathise with the Hungarian#, and chec
them on in tbcir struggles for freedom, wbik
•osh insults and w rongs are heaped upon he
own citizens in a sitter State' Out upon suci
hypocrisy' Let it be remembered that
daily and hourly, this same thing it acted
over and over again, in the persona of Amen
cau etuiertt, m the very Stale from whici
was last sccUwted the Chief Magutiato u
preside m tbe administration of government
in this great nation. This outrage was com
milaerf, ihCt bo friendly «we should sat <0
the Colored men toiling lnjes—ntly on Zachary
Tsrkw s fli intation, and the plantations #1
othif sla»<k»idt‘i» in that State. “You aiea
and flfee day, perhaps, far down in ti|l
tatuit. yoer posterity dull be flee.”
When I ftfiect with what cocrtesy Louisi
anians, although many shades darker than are
the people of the Eastern States, are treated
when they visit New England, and then heat
such facts from people of the north but little
darker than are these New Orleans Algerines,
who hare punished thus for their color. I am
ready to swear upon tbe altar of ruy country,
that, through anv agency of mine, no slave
holder shad ever be the chief ruler of the frde
-1 men in thin sountry.
We must say to the South, abolish youi
heathenish statutes against the rights of aU
i people (foiu the free States, at least, sad treat
our citmeos as cittsenn of your own Slain are
treated at home aad at the north, or not 3
man who holds slaves shall hold any office un
|der the General Government. Your non-
I slaveholders shall fill all such offices or they
shall not be filled at all.
Slave Cask at th* West.—We lean
from the HiUtboraugh (Ohio) GeztUf, that a
mail by the name of fk»g*cll, from Memphis,
undertook to carry off a negro woman, In
Clermont county, Ohio, under the following
circumstances His claim to her services ai
a slave rested on a paper purpoiting to be I
bill of sale from a former owner in Memphis
not sufficiently authenticated. This papei
certified that lie had bought said slave foi
**6o; that she was a slave for life, wai
sound of body and mind, Stc., winch transac
tion took plave in April la.st. This womai
was found at the house of Mr. James Sloane
near Mourertown, in Hamilton county, wai
seized by these persons, in the hou.se of Mr
Sioane, and dragged out some distance towsri
the road, with the intention, as wss believed
of transporting her out of the State, as
slave. Before they got to the road, however
they were met by Mr. Sloane, and toldthej
must not remove Mary froth his premieei
without first establishing their claim.
While thus engaged, a warrant fron
Esquire Long was obtained, upon the oath o
H. P. Sloane, and the parties were arrestei
upon a charge of seizing a free black persoi
named Mary Elizabeth Monroe, keeping he:
i m restraint and confinement, with intention t<
tiansporl her out of the State of Ohio. Thej
were brought to Hillsborough. Upon ex
amimng and comparing the testimony, it wai
found that Mary was the slave of Cogzell
purchased, as stated in the bill of sale, ii
April last; that he (her master) sent he
with a lady, Mrs. Phiipot, who was in t!
lieahli, to Ohio, on a visit to her brother, t
Mr. Hammett, one of the accused.
While residing in Clermont, some persoi
informed Mary that she was free; that he
master having sent her to a free State, ha<
thereby emancipated her. So she resolved t<
put the matter to the proof, and accordingly
on the sth of July, left the services of Mrs
P., and was by some one takeu to Mr
Sloane’s, where she remained until seized bi
I the claimants. The black woman Mary wai
admitted to testify a& a witness in the case
the fitst case of the kind in Highland sinct
ihc repeal of the Black Laws. Her testi
inony. it is said, was calm, clear, and de
liberate —without confusion or hesitation, ant
duly corroborated by the testimony o
others.
Sixteen Days Later from California
The New Vork Tribune has advices fronr
San Francisco to August Id, being sixteer
days later than the news brought by the
steamer Panama. This intelligence was re
ceived through Mazatlan, Mexico and Verr
Cruz, and reached New’ York in the mail oi
1 the British steamer Severn, by the way ol
i Mobile.
The news from the mines is of a quite glow
i ing character; the yield of gold was steady
and though there was, as a uoattar of course
1 much disappointment among individuals, tin
general result was highly satisfactory. It i
estimated that the average product of all tin
mines together, thus far, since the beginning
of that season, has been $2,000,000 pe
month, and there was thought to be no doub
of its continuance at the same rate of abun
dance, No change is quoted in the pricei
either of gold or meichandise.
The health of the population both at th<
mines and elsew here, is generally good, anc
neither cholera nor any other serious maladj
is reported as having made its appearance.
The jealous, unfriendly feeling which has
so long been in existence between the Amer
iicans and South Americans ofSpanish origin
i has at last approached a crisis, and by the
1 next a rival we may expect to hear of a grave
I collision, at least if the party warned offdis
play anthmg like a manly spirit. The Amer
leans have determined that the Mexicans and
I Chilians who are at the mines shall no longei
enjoy the privilege of digging out the richei
.of the earth, and have taken deliberate meas
ures accordingly. All companies of these na
turns who have come organized tft work foi
(the season, with the inteniiou of returning tc
spend the winter and wet season at home,
have been informed that their presence will
no longer be tolerated, and have received pos
itive orders to leave tbe gold diggings and
not return. The more active and energetic
part of the American mining population are
understood to be engaged in tins new move
ment of nativeisra, but we are not informed
what number of persons are actually engaged
in this expulsive movement nor how the
parti- sjwould be matched incase of an attempt
forcibly to compel the Mexicans and Chilians
to evacuate but there appears to be no doubi
that the latter would have no resource but tc
submit at last.
The order to evacuate allows a fixed time
sufficient for the retiring partiee to make fcl
necessary preparations. Tbe Americans seen:
from our iulurmation, to have proceeded very
calmly about it, and up to tbe 18th no distur
bances whatever had taken place they were
waiting lor the expiration of the allotted peri
od, after which, should the rejected adventu
t rersn fuse to leave, they would set about
[making them. When that moment arrives,
there is, in the nature of the case, danger oi
fighting and bloodshed.
Politics seein to be much more quiet
through the Territory than at the last dates
when the bustle of the elections had not yel
ended and the excitement was still fresh
Now ins comparatively stagnant. Not a
word ta mentioned in our advices about the
proposed Slate Constitution, nor is the con
vention so much as alluded to. From this,the
1 inference naiuraly is, that the people are tot
i intently occupied w ith the great business o:
I taking out gold and getting rich to devote any
great amount of thought, iu the hot weathei
of the dog days, to any thing of so dull*
peisoual interest as public affairs in a country
where the spoils of the Treasury are not st
itch as those of the placers, nor so essy of ac
cess and eiriting in the aqui6ipon as thoseo:
i a faro bank or a roulette table.
Toths a Side of thiStoxy.— Those wht
ne fascinated with the golden prospects ol
altfornia, as they art set forth tu the letter!
from that country,will perhaps*receive a link
discouragement from any such contradiction
l as the following, which we copy from the
National Intehgencer of the 23d
Extract from a letter received in this cuy
I from a geuiiemau of known veracity, dated ai
Mt niert-v, July 2?
Ibe California excitement is the greatesi
humbug of sll time. There i* much gold in
the country, but in most c«aes a man
can clear but little beyond his board,
while the labor is of the hardest and most ex
posing kind. Some few have luck, and
Stake largely Withtn a short irate, which
■it trumpeted every where fur effeer. Wbik
I worked I did not get enough to pay tuv
board. It is well understood here, that cer
tain officer* have written home in an official
capacity more favorable account* than this.
Those who rsmam among us, if Owy have
«»J generous Wan laft them, meet deplore
tbepart thagr hsv* taken when they behold
the thousands now landing ban, with high
hopes that (tlaal) will never be realized. I
*m at this place oo mj way from Saa Frae
ctaco to Lae Angelos, where I design setile
ing if 1 like U. When] I get theta, and set
tled, I w?B writ* you a letter as hmg aad
broad as Peoaeytvseia Avenue, ft vine hia
tory of all I saw, and “part of which I eras."
Mosquito Tsouslcs.—The Washington
correspondent of the K. Y. Joornal of Com
merce says:
There baa been a sharp correspondence be
tween Mr. Clayton and the 3riuah Minister,
Mr. Grampian. It is balievad soma high
ground has been taken by this government io
i appaartioa to the exdaaive pteteaaiona of
Great Britain.
It will be recollected that the British gov
i eminent has adopted, eo to speak, one of the
wild savages of Central America, aad set him
up as a king, claiming for him the territory in
the vicinity of the San Juan river, the outlet
of Lake Nicaragua, including the exclusive
right of navigating that river. The real
cause of this interest suddenly taken by the
British government m the affairs of an igno
rant savage, is perfectly transparent. The
most feasible route fur a ship canal across the
Isthmus, exists at this point, to the sueeess of
this ■project, the navigation of Ibe St. John
rivet is essential. The British government,
is the “guardian*’ of the Moequito king, and
denies the citizens of any other nation the
previlege of navigating the San Juan.
The republic of New Grenada, to whom
this territory rightfully belongs, has recently
i signed a contract with a company from the
united States, granting them the exclusive
navigation of the San Juan river, for the term
of fifteen years, on the condition that that
i company commence cutting a canal from the
Lake Nicaragua to the Pacific ocean, within
I a year from the date of the contract. The
affair, which lias been pending for nearly two
i years, is thus brought to a crisis.—The
American government has probably refused to
acknowledge the puppet set up by the British
i Government, as “King of the Moequito Terri
tory,” and has recognized the jurisdiction ol
i the Republic of Nicaragua over the territory,
F and asserted the right of our citizens, under
I grant from that government, to navigate the
i San Juan.
Our relations with Great Britain.—
r Unfounded Rumor. —The Courier and En
quirer of Thursday says: It has been an
nounced in several of the City papers within
a few days past, that a warm correspondnce
has taken place between Mr. Clayton, our
Secretary of State, and Mr. Crampton, the
I Bditish Charge de Affairs at Washington,
upou the pretentions of Great Brittain to co
controll the navigation os the San Juan river
in the State of 4 Nicaraqua. The onnounce
ment, coming upon the heels of the Poussin
I difficulty, has made some stir and been con
sideracly talked about. We have it in our
power to scate that the rumor is entirely un.
founded. No correspondence whatever has
been laid upon the subject nor will it, in all
proqability, be made matter of diplomic dis
mission nntii the arrival of Sir Henry Lytton
Bulwer. the British Minister.”
Rev. Mr.. Nkvin.—We understand that
the Rev. Mr. Nevin, of Mount Vernon, 0.,
i has united with the Presbyterian Abolition
r church, which was organized a year or two
since. If Abolitionism does not abolish sla
very, it produces other fruits which are suffi
ciently marked —driving some into schism
and ethers into infidelity .—-Presbyterian oj
the West.
Dr. Rice, the able editor of the Presbyte
rian of the West shows the littleness of hii
pro-slavery mind in the above extract. On
most points not connected with the slavery
question, the Dr. shows the most enlarged
mind, and pious soul, and is one of the most
faithful rebukers of immorality. But how
i j little does it look to try to cast odium upon
I the Free Presbbyterian church by calling il
the Abolition Church Not that there ii
s, really any odium attached to the name Ab
oiition,” but lie knows that to most of hii
hearers that name is exceedingly opprobri
I ous. The D. D. in the O. S. Pres, church
I j that has not magnanimity enough to call any
branch of the Presbyterian church by its right
1 name, but will give it one commonly regar
ded as odious, shows that he is either undei
1 the deep probings of conscience, or is fearful
that a reforming church, coming out from his
own, may tend to diminish the latter, or spoil
1 some of the craft.
“If Abolitionism does not abolish slavery,”
it is not because Abolitionists have not the
truth with them, but because such men as Dr.
Rice argue and teach that the relation ol
mastei and slave it not sinful,” and oppose
every just effort of the Abolitionists to effect
the freedom of the slave.
That Abolitionism drives “some into schism
and others into infidelity is an unfounded
charge. Every one knows it was slaveery
jin the church that caused the schism. Had
I that been removed, the Free Presbyterian
would not have come out. And that Aboli
tionism drives “others into infidelity” is e
quaily as unfounded. Men, in whose bosoms
the* fire of humanity still burns, sec thous
ands and thousands of slaveholders in the
church, and hear church members trying to
prove that the Bible sanctions slavery, and
conclude (bad logic however) that the Bible
is not of God. Slavery sud its apologists
i drive into infidelity.”— New Concord fiVer
Prtss.
Land Monopoly.— lt is a great carse to
the Western Reserve that thousands upon
thousands of acres ofthe best land are own
ed by non-residing nabobs, who get them for
almost nothing and now ask twtf prices for
them. These lands have been enhanced in
value by contiguous settlements and improve
ments, as roads, rneeting-bousea.school-hous
es, and good neighborhoods, at the same time
that they have stood in the way of improve
ment. It is safe to say that all other impe
diments met with in the settlement of this
country have not equalled that of landa be
longing to non-residents. Had the prin
ciple of Land Limitation been made effective
at the time ofthe adoption ofthe Federal
Constitution, who does not see that it would
have resulted in unmistakable blessings to our
country?
The thousands of acres of wilderness, of
which our country furnishes an example,
would have been converted, into pleasant
homes for Freemen. Yea, the cause of pu#e
and high reaching Democracy would have
1 been greatly benefited thereby.
Who doubts the propriety—nay the neoee
rf ity—of Land Limitation? If any then they
are those who hope to build up fortunes by
speculating in Soil which is only known to
them by the description in tbeir title deeds, or
those who having eyes see not, aad haring
abilities for judgiog judge not.
The question is soon to be agitated to ao
extent little dreamed of by land speculators
and monopoTsts, and it will result in the tri
umph of limitation. Our country at large de
mand this result, and the interests of Ihery in
dividual except our landed lords, demand it
also. We go for it first, last and forever.—
Cleveland True Democrat.
Th* W ILMINSTON KIDMAPPIVe CASK.—
This case has been decided; the man-thieves
are foiled and i heir ptey baa escaped. The
ease came up before Judge Milligan on Fri
da? rooming, the fifth alt., on the wnt of
habeas eorpes, having been postponed from
ike fifth ult. la the mean ume, through the
aeuve siemens of the fneods of freedom,
most eansfaetory evidence had been obtained
that Ase Brown was legally free Dsfiwe
the tnal came ee, the kidnappers, fiadiagtbey
had little hope of gaming the case. ***rnasi
ed to sell the woman to her friends far ear
hundred dollars. Thu was promptly refused,
“Not a dollar—not a cent will we pay yoe,”
was the noble rephr of Thomas Garret to
Fountain’s urgent soliatariou fur a oomwo
ease. Ftndiag they had determaed men to
d«l with, and fearing for thcnwwii
tk» whole robber gtwf Wfft fw yiryhai be
fora lira trial cum on, awl
claimant appeared to eoutt. Tkßjadgp ktjrc
the testimony in her behalf *o4 tforiara4 hei
a /rtf woman, remarking at the mate time
that be should have discharged bar aftthout
aey evidence, on account of the illegality ol
the commitamat, even had the claimants ap
peared. Thin ta theaecood time an attempt
baa been made by the Maaaeya to reduce thu
woman to alavery, the fits* being to tbta city
aeveral years since, when they were defeat
ed in court, and narrowly escaped an arrest
for perjury for tbeir false swearing. At thta
time, they doubtless eapected to take her by
force,net counting m the interference of brn
brother. We understand that the in famous
McCreary, the bead kidnapper in the ab
duction of Thomas Mitcbali, was actively en
gaged in this ease.
It is but justice to add, that much credit
was doe to ibe Acting Committee of the Old
Abolition Society for tbeir active aid in se
curing evidence and counsel in be hall of the
accused; and also that they are ever ready
to render pecuniary or personal aid, ot advice
in such cases.— Ptnn. Freeman.
Row away Ncoaoss. —The three negroes
who ran away from tbeir owners, on Sunday
night, J. Young. S. J. Young, and J. G.
Guthrie, at West Point, wete overtaken sad
captured by Mr. Guthrie and two other per
sons, on Monday night, about 11 o'clock, at
the first toll gate on the Sait River road.
When the negroes were surrounded and re
quired to surrender two of them immediately
did so. The feird—Tom, took the doubled
barelled shotgun which was in the hands of
one of his companions, from him, called upon
them to stand, swearing at the samp time that
he would never be taken alive, cocked, and
commenced raising the gun. At this moment
one of the white men discharged a double
barrelled fowling piece, loaded with buck-shot
at him. Oue of the shot took effect in the
upper jaw, fracturing it throughout its who le
extent, and afterwards passing upward and
backward in the direction of the ear, where
else it could not be traced. His recovery is
doubtful. Louisville Jour.
Kidkappino Case.— A charge of kidnap
ping, preferred against a Tenneseean and
two Ohioans, was tried in its incipient stage
in this place, the past week, which excited
some interest. The point examined was,
whether the parties should be committed for
trial at our next common Pleas on the charge
of attempting to kidnap a colored girl in
Whiteoak township, in that county. It was
alleged on trial that the girl in question had
been sent by the Tennessee detendent to Ohio
the last summer,beir.g his slave in Tennesee.
He, in company with two Ohioans, attempted
to take her back to slavery, for w hich they
were arrested. The trial continued two
days and a half, before Justice Keys, and the
question of commitment was sustained. The
parties were held to bail, to appear at the*
next jerm of our Court, in the sum of five
hundred dollars each. Hillsborough Ohio)
Chronicle.
THE NORTH STAR.
ROCHESTER. OCTOBER 12. 1849.
Editorial Correspondence.
Lockport, Oct., Bth, 1849.
We have just completed the last Fair in
the series it was held on Friday, and Satur
day, Oct. sth, and 6th, and may be set down
as the most successful of the number—the
gross receipts amounting to one hundred and
forty dollars.
Considering that there were one or two
drawbacks, this sum is large. There had
just been held quite a popular fair in the
Lutheran Church, in ets own behalf, and the
public of course, felt less interest in ours than
would have been the case under other circum
stances. The weather too, was unpropitious,
cold, and rainy, so much so as to make it
difficult for ladies to attend.
We however are highly gratified by the re
sult. Besides the pecuniary advantage ari
sing from the fair, we think that much good
was done by bringing the subject of slavery
prominently before the community, and active
ly enlisting the energies of a number of per
sons in practical efforts for advancing the An
ti-Slavery cause. There are in every town
a number of persons who feel more or less
deeply, the necessity of doing something to
wards abolishing slavery, but whose energies
lie dormant solely for the want of some per
son to lead, and mark out the way.
They need something iu the way of fairs and
sewing circles, upon which to bestow their
attention, activity, and skill.
We would respectfully suggest to the La
dies of Lockport the desirableness of forming
among themselves an Anti-Slavery Sewing
Circle; such an organization while it would
do much towards furnishing the sinews of
our Anti-Slavery warfare, would also keep
alive the interest in the subject already exci
ted. Will some lady in Lockport lead
the way in this benevolent work*
Previous to the fair, we had the pleasure
of addressing a large and respectable audience
■in the Congiegational Church, a most com
modious building, which was very kindly and
readily granted for our use. It always gives
us pleasure to record a fact of this kind,
i The Pro-Slavery press and public frequent
ly charge us with a studied inattention to the
good deeds of the chnrch, and the constant
e *af fetation of its ahortcomings. The charge
unfounded, —we hail with delight the slight
est indication of liberality from that quarter.
Our controversy with the American Chuich
and 1 Clergy ends just w here their Anti-Sla
very action begins let them make slavery a
disciplinary offence, —let them exclude slave
holders from their communion,—kt them de
ny vue sacred name of Christian to slivehoid
cis, —let them declare slavery to be what it
is, s monstrous and deadly sin against God,
fraught with the most horrible consequences
*o both slaves and slave-holders,—and let
them, in the spirit of ihe prophets and apo«-
tles Merely denounce the colossal iniquity,
*®d do all in their power for its removal from
the length and breadth of the land and none
would be more ready to bestow the rueed of
pnuse upon such a church and clergy than
ws. So far from desiring to conce:! all knovtk
of the. good deeds of the church, we re
joi ce to be able to publish to the world any
action on her part that evinces the smallest
sympathy for the down-trodden bondman, and
the slightest disposition to do something for
his release.
We are to hold another meeting m the Cuo.
grsgstional Church tomorrow evening, when
s large andieoee will doubtless be jm Mian
dance.
Our Fair u Lockport, as well as ear most
‘Of, has received most favorable notice by the
of that place; especially the Daily
Conrier."
Among the number of thane who extended
«n ne a cordial welcome, and who united with
ne in gneetoue eo-opesntioo, we would sspe
natty imnijdii tte bum ooi Ly>
mb A. SpaMiaf aad fiMtij, DuM Bartis,
tad family, Mrs. WidM,
.U of whom ws feel iß*»b*ad (oa behalf of
(Ike eaose,) fur tbe sMeem sWendinf the fair.
Hwrrog mid so mack of (he sgreesble, coo
nected with oar v«t to Lookport, wo may,
■ay a few words opocerainf soma things not
altogether so pleasiaf
The mountain ddhcalty in tbe way of the
Anti-slaverv movement, which ia known as
color madness, met us oo the threshold, and
for a time rendered it doubtful whether or not
we should find shelter. On our arrival, we
called at the Americas Hotel/’ ia the hope
of obtaining accommodation there, but were
infsrmed that the Court of Supervisors was in
session and that its members occupied tbe
whole house. We hare every reason now to
believe this was true, though our frequent ex
perience of being excluded from Hotels indu*
ced at first the suspicion that this was but a
mere subterfuge. We next called at the
Lockport House,” but could not induce the
keeper to take any notice of us. Thence we
went to the Eagle Hotel,” from which we
were spurned iu a most vulgar and insulting
manner by*the contemptible creature who pre
sumed to be the master. We next tried our
fortunes at a small Hotel near the Eagle,
the unpretending proprietor of which wel
comed us kindly, and would undoubtedly
have paid us every attention in his power, had
we remained under his roof. But as soon as
our kind friend Mr. Spalding, ascertained our
whereabouts, he extended to us, to Mr*.
Post, and to tbe Misses Griffiths, a warm
and hearty invitation to make his house our
home, so long as we remained in Lockport
and on our accepting his generous offer, he
promptly sent his servant and carriage to
convey us to his hospitablegmansion,where we
noware. Oh! how delightful it is to meet
ever and anon, in this howling Pro-slavery
wilderness, a resting place where we are
neither shocked by vulgarity, nor chilled by
patronizing condescension. Our anti-slavery
life would be hard indeed, but that our lot is
sometimes cast in pleasant places in this re
spect. Nothing can be more distasteful to us
than to receive the hospitality of one who
makes a merit of granting it, and who takes
pains to assure us that he is sacrificing public
esteem by giving us entertainment. We are
aware, however, that this is in many cases, a
sin of ignorance, and we can therefore excuse
it, but such persons tuust 4 not be surprised it
they find us maintaining a respectful distance,
and avoiding rather than seeking a second
visit. It is heedless to say that the hause oi
our excellent friend Mr. Spalding, it not oi
this class. We have never been made more
completely at home than under his roof, and
among the members of his dear family.
Our readers must not be dissatisfied with
continued absence from our editorial chaii.
Tins absence is quite as inconvenient to us aa
it may be unsatisfactory to them. We find
it absolutely necessary to travel and lecture in
order to extend the circulation of the North
Star,” and otherwise advance the cause.
If our readers would have us more at oui
post, they have only to exert themselves in
order to secure a sufficient number of sub
scribers to support the paper, and we shall
joyfully confine our energies to our editorial
duties.
Our readers must not expect us to make
bricks without straw. It is impossible to
produce a first rate paper from week to week
while travelling every day and lecturing every
night. Reduced to this necessity we shall do
the best we can, Angels could do no
more.”— r. D.
Colored Convention in Connecticut.
A Convention of the Colored men of Con*
eecticut was held »t New Haven, on the 12th
and 13th ult. The proceedings, as we find
i them in the teport published by the Conven
tion, seem to have been characterised by
much harmony, and to have been conducted
with becoming dignity. Jrhiil C. Bsmam
presided. S. M. AraicANue, J. Emsrt
Burr, and L. Cartbb Behan acted as
Seretaiies. A Committee was appointed to
prepare an Address to the voters ef the State,
1 in behalf of the colored people whieh Ad
dress is published in pamphlet, with the pro
ceedings. It will probably appear in an early
number of the North Star. After mature
discussion on each, the following resolution#
were adopted:
I. Resolved, That we regard the right of
the Elective'Franchise as one of the most
valuable and sacred rights of man. and at
once the glory and the shield of civil Gov
ernment.
3. Resolved, That to deprive any class of
men of this invaluable and inalienable right,
and for a pretext release their property from
a State Tax, when at the earae time they
must beai their part of the expenses of the
general Government, is not to be considered
as a favor but is rather s measure calculated
to fix upon them more deeply the mark of
political degradation.
3. Resolved, That the Constitutional dis
ability under which colored men labor in the
State of Connecticut, being founded upon,
that color with which the Almighty Creator
has clothed them, is impious before Heaven—
unjust and cruel to those effected by it—ab
bot rent to the religion of Jesus Christ—iu
suiting to humanity—x dishonor to the State,
and an obstacle in the way nf that spirit oi
Freedom which is abroad in the earth, strug
gling to redeem man the world over, and
should therefore be speedily removed.
4. Resolved, That we believe that the day
has now come, when the people of our be
loved Stale of Connecticut should remove ibis
blot from her Constitution, sod proudly and
uobiy take her place with that of every other
State in New England, in giving to all tbeir
eitixens the right of Suffrage.
5. Resolved, That we pledge ourselves to
each other, u> use all honorable means to in
duce the good people of ibis Stste to arise
in their moral strength, sad in the majesty of
their political dignity, and remove from the
Stale's escutcheon that blot which now identi
fies her with the spirit of political tytanny.
6. Resolved, That we rejoice in the efforts
sod progress which our brethren have made
and are to procure property, especial#
ly land, in this sad various other States, and
Qua we regard this as one of the signs of the
com i of of tiatdey, when, as e people, we
shall hold in emioeoi and dignified position
in Society.
T. Resolved, That we are eoeoeraged by
the partial success whieh has crowned the
eflbna ef ear bcethrsa sad the friends of free
dom, without distinction of party in Ohio, sod
congratulate her eitocos sed the world on the
repeal of her “Black Law*,” and hope the
day will speedily come when the Statute
Books of every State in the Colon shall be
purified fiom all eejeet aed oppressive Lews,
Resolved, That oar interests are the
same as these ef our brethren to bauds, aad
that white we aygsthtao with them is their
deeper aflmhoes, we will, to show that we
“tccnanaher thma as hound with t^om iltn
■euwe wwue WnT
aateaiMl favwe vntaons aaeree of condaet,
that our example may have a tendency u
hasten the day of oar own elevation and then
emantiptlion.
9. Rewired, That we request rrery Minis
ter of the Gospel to preach at least once lr
every three months, upon the important sub
ject of total abstinence I root the uae of all
intoxicating liquors and thus exert a living
influence agatnat the direful evils of Intern'
per acre.
10. Resolved, That we recommend to all
an earnest and zealous interest in the educa
tion of theii children, and that they use their
beet endeavors t# givr them a thorough men
tal and moral training, and then introduce
them into the mechanic arts, and ibus prepare
them 10 develop and sustain a virtuous and
honorable station in Society.
11 Resolved, As there appears to be s
crisis m our condition as a people, it u> our
duty to regard carefully the position of those
who, in this cause, identify themselves wnh
un; and those among us, who deny ihtir
identity with us, should be looked upon in
the light of tones and enemies to the social
and universal freedom of man.
12. Resolved, That notwithstanding we
are deprived of the right of the Elective
Franchise, and deprived of the privileges ot
citizenship, we will use our utmost omleavora
to cultivate the principles ol a pure morality
and high intellectual attainments, aud by in
dustry and economy gain property.
19. Resolved, That this Convention deem
it advisable and expedient to present the
claims of the colored citizens of Connecticut
to equal rights to the body of the people by
the means of Lecturers. Discussed hy
Messrs. Spellman, and W est, and
adopted.
14. Resolved, That those Lecturers should
be colored men of intelligence and ability,
residents in this State, and should be sustain
ed by our contributions; adopted.
15. Resolved, That the Central State Com
mittee be, and are hereby instructed to per
fect this plan of effort, anil employ a sufficient
number of men properly qualified, and appor
tion the expense among the Districts repre
sented in this Convention.
Doings in South Carolina.
The hair-brained fools of South Calhounia
are at their work again. The Post Office
seems destined to keep up an everlasting fe
ver in that region of slaves and patriotism.
In the Charleston Mercuty, appears an ac
count of one of the most arbitrary and illegal
proceedings which the history of modern
times can furnish. The tyrannical acts of
Russia have given occasion for much railing
so have those of Austria, Algiers, Turkov,
Japan, Isc., but the tyranny of these coun
tries, must henceforth cease to be regarded
as at all to be compared with the unmitigated
despotism of South Carolina. The Mercury
besides, is apparently unconscious that there
is anything disreputable in such proceed
ings
More Abolitioism. —By the following
letter from an esteemed correspondent, ii
will be perceived that the Abolitionists are
still active in their incendiary efforts
Pendleton, Sept. 16, 1849.
Gentlemen By the mail of Friday, there
were received at this place a number of cop
ies of an Abolition circular, directed to the
members of the Committee of Vigilance
The Executive committee of that body, on
the following day, demanded the letters ol
the postmaster. On his refusal to deliver
them, they entered his office, and took them
by force. This oase presents a new feature
of an important matter, which is deeply agi
tating the public mind. Among the reforms
which our enemies propose to accomplish in
this State, it will not escape your notice that
the election of President of the United States
occupies a prominent position.
It need scarcely be remarked, that the war
which the fanatics of the Noith are so perso
veringly waging against the peace and secu
rity of the South, cannot be much longer
carried on only by one party. An offensive
attitude by the other it will be impossible to
restrain the people very shortly from as
suming.
Respectfully yours, S.”
We should like to know how long the gen
eral government means to submit to such
indignity. What is particularly remarkable
about this case is. that the incendiary docu
ment which has caused the disturbance, says
not a word about slavery, but is simply an
exposure of the working of the constitution
of South Carolina, and the unequal represen
tation among the white population.
By all means, let that little nest of hornets
lake themselves off, and fiud a post office
that will answer the purpose of keeping them
in that deep and everlasting darkness which
they seem so much to covet. Decent men
who have no evil deeds to hide or to be a
shained of, would then give them a wide
berth, and allow them to stumble along by
themselves, the short but rough road to per
dition which they seem to have chosen.
The case of Dr. Brisbane, a Baptist minis
ter of South Carolina, who among other
things was accused of praying that univer
sal liberty may prevail and for that, and hia
opinions against slavery, was harried out of
the State under threats of tar and feathers,
is another striking illustration of the barbar
ous state of feeling in South Carolina.
These violent measures resorted to by the j
slaveraongersmay be regarded as evidence that
they see their weakness and the untenabieness
of their position. The mao who has truth on
his side never attempts to smother discussion.
Tne more his views are talked about _ and ar-
gued upon, the more apparent does their
truthfulness become. Not so with tyrants
and evil-doers. They hate the light. They
dare not eome to the light. They know they
are in the wrong, and they will try every
means in their power to keep their dark deeds 1
aud darker doctrines huddled away and bid-
deu. But it will not do. Even into the
murky regions of South Carolina, the light oi'i
troth will ere long penetrate. Slaveiyise-i
ten now acknowledged on all hands, to be an
unnatural condition and productive of evil'
not leas to the master than to the slave.
When printed, even slaveholders are foiced
to make this confession, though they are
slow to act upon it, so slow indeed, that it
may well be doubted whether they are real
ly convinced of its truth. There must be
few however, who bold the doctrme of per
petualism. It is so clearly abeurd, and its
absurdity is every day becoming so much'
more apparent even to the prejudiced under-1
fundings of tbe haughty and self sufficient t
chivalry, that there is reason to hope the
high-priest of slavery will ere long be left
alone to worship in the temple of Baal amid
neglected faaea, and despised ceremonials.
Bet in the meantime, slavery m rampant,
it te fighting a last and desperate battle. It
ie driven te fanous measures of selMefencs.
that •will do mere to work its overthrow
than yea* of long and patient argument.
Dr. Brisbane has recently pnbhahed a let
ter on the subject of has expaJmou from the
State, m the Ctaeaaiu Glebe. It *a«ieai
tod simple stateibem of facte, and will fcw
f*sd with interest. Ae extract is
below.—j. o.
“If is well known in this community thst
I bate good reason for desiring to see South
Carolina deliveted from the despotism which
i» now grinding her to powder. I have my.
self suffered enough to know that the white
citizens of that State are subjects of opprea
sion not mueh less galling then their “blacks”
endure. It is but eighteen months sgo, that
I went there to vmt my numerous relative*
and friends who lote and respect me and
whilst tnv wife, infant and self were en
joying then company <nd receiving iheir bos
pita lilies and afffctionste attentions, a conspi
racy was seertely forming among e ei>e
entes ot liberty, and the riotously disposed, to
make an assault upon roe. and on a cold win
ter’s night, with my wife and child both sick
we had to leave the warm fire-side of our
friends, and for their, as well as our own
safety, hasten forty or fifty miles bv private
conveyance, through forests antTswamps to
tho railroad depot, and leave the State. Not
knowing we had left, a packed meeting* of
citizens was held for the purpose of taking
proceedings against me. FortunaieJv, two
or three of the friends of order heard of ih»
meeting in time to uke part in the discu*
sioris, and by opposing their violent demon
strations to nndify somewhat their course of
aetion, But they appointed a committee to
wait upon me and warn me to leave the State
And for what was this done’ They knew
well knew that 1 was not a man to engage is
schemes of servile insurrection. They knew
that I had always borne the character, when
I lived among them, of being an honest and
an honorable men.—They knew me aa oris
who hid tried to be a faithful minister of ths
gospel among them. They knew, too, thst
the chinch in their neighborhood, of which
was foimeriy the pastor, had still such confi
dence in tm'uitegrity and Christian character
notwithstanding my well known opinions on
the subject of shivery, as to have had me bv
invitation to preach in their pulpit but a few
days before. They knew that thus* who
were paying me friendly attention were them
selves slaveholders, and as deeply interested
as any others, in the consequence of mv ptes
ence in the State, and therlore, if they could
have confidence in me, others might. All
these things they knew. Why, then, did
they 9et upon me* It was for nu other rea
son than that I had opinions adverse to sla
veay, and had emancipated my slaves.”
Liberty in Europe.—Orm of our very
clear sighted co-temporaries has an article
under this, head, in the course of which the
writer waxes warm, and comes to the conclu
sion that something ought to be done for
Europe. What that something is, he does
not condescend to say. Perhaps he does not
e *actly know. The idea is contained in the
following sentence:
“A movement should he started at once tti
this country for the disenthralmem of the
enslaved millions of Europe. Where is the
man who may trace relationship to Bunker
Hill or Lexington, that doesn’t burn with a
desire to aid the noble men who are strug
gling for their tights in the old world
Very £ood, and very rational, no doubt,
after the scheme lias been fully explained to
the relations of Bunker Hill and Lexington,
it might puzzle a philosopher to find out what
is ment by tracing relationship to Bunker
Hill. W'e suppose, however, that In the ex
pression there is a poetical ellipsis, pnd the
writer means to he understood to refer to the
men who (ought at Bunker Hill and Lexing-
I ton. Now, may we not be allowed to hint,
that it is a very spurious kind of sympathy
with the enslaved, that travels off some four
I thousand miles for an object, when there ire
“enslaved milliona” at home on whom it migh
be expended with great advantage “Charity
begins at home more especially is this the
case, when the charity is more than ueually
required. To whom are out three millions
of slaves to look for deliverance if we neglect
them Let us boast about our republicanism
as we may, it is quite beyond dispute that
there is no slavery in Eurape— scarcely any
where else—to be compared in diabolical atro
city with the slavery of these United States.
This writer, and many others of the same
genus, would do well to frequently utter the
prayer of tne Scottish poet:
wad some Power the giftie gieus.
To see oureel’a as others see us’”— j. o.
Anti-Slavery Fair in Philadelphia.—
The committee of the Philadelphia Female
Anti-Slavery Society have assured a Notice
ot the approach of their Fourteenth Anti-
Slavery Fair. The notice says:
I he ruturn of the season for our sale prompts
ns to send forth the word of remembrance t*>
our fellow-laborers in this department of Anti-
Slavery woik. The success of past years
should cheer and incite us to vigorous effort
for the present year.
So fully have the various Circles through
out our hounds, identified themselves with u»
in this work, and so much of experience have
the past years given us and them, that all
which we consider now necessary to be done
is to revert to the necessity of continued ef
fort on the part of all who feel that to them
must not come the folding of the hands, nor
the rejxise of him whose labor is accomplish
ed. while the slave is driven by the merciless
task master, and our brother continues weary
and heavy laden.
AA ould earnestly invite the co-operation ot
all those who sympathize with the slave,
andfevould help to overthrow' a system at war
with all the dearest rights of humanity, and
the most holy relations of life.
Literary Property.—Ths Journal du
Havre, of July 25 says “There is talk of a
treaty between France and the United States
of America, respecting literary property.
The primary negotiations on the subject have
already been entered upon, by the Minister of
France, at Washington.’’
The wish for treaties of this kind, on tho
part of France and England, and perhaps of
Germany, will probably be increasingly (pit
in view uf tho vastness of our reading* commu
nity but whether the wish will ever be met
by u* is doubtful. —Journal of Commtrct
Enchanted Canary Birds.—We haven t
heard a prettier piece of pathos in a long tune
than tb«; burning of the great aviary at the
fire in Wdhameburgh en Saturday evening
Tho aviary contained eight hundred Canary
Birds, and aa last as they were set free they
darted straight into the au, but, fascinated by
the glate of the Saiuea, hovered above them
and one by one drooped into and were con
sumed by them. The appearance of these
golden-winged creatures, tneir pele plumage
lighted up by the intense glare of the red
fames, pot»«d motionless above the confiag*
uon, or darting awiftly-fike thought, to tb«
fata endeavor to escape the spell that must
destroy them, was full of poetic interest, as
well aa a tbnihng sadness. In the divine
language of Swedenborg, birds correspond to
thoughts, and the grand resenibleoce* which
suggest themselves immediately, gt*« strong
coloring of rationality to this beautiful arilo
gy. As we taw these birds wheeling about
the vast sea ot burning air that lay beneath
or lyiug helpless and palpitatmg upon an sur
fa<*e, we thought of the mjrnods of blight
human intellects which. euugU <n the vuffo
eaung atmosphere and dazzled by the burning
fames of paaatoo, gleam for an instant in
the land light, end dart downward to quick
destruction.
Foreign News of the Week
The Canada, Capt. Judkins arrived at Halifax 
on Tuesday, the 2d mat., in lea* than ten
data from Lite pool, and bring* dates to th*
22d alt.
E.nglxno. Tbe Peace Congress i* still at
tracting attention in England. Amongst ths
meetings that hare been held, since the As
sembly in Paris, one held in Aylesbury, Bucks,
for the purpose of “ratifying the proceedings
of the Peace Congress in Pan*/’ teems de
serving of notice. John Lee, Esq one of
the county magistrates, was called to the
chair. A mongst the speakers at the meeting,
we see mention made of Amass Walker, Rev.
Joseph Allen. William Wells Brown, and
other American delegates. The chairman
invited the American deputies to his mansion,
where they were entertained with distinguish
ed hospitality. Hartwell House, the residence
of Dr. Lee, is celebrated as haring been for
merly occupied by the Hampden family, and
as haring been the abode of Louis XVIII,
curing five years of bis*exile from Francs,
from 1807 to 1812. In honor of the occasion,
Dr. Lee had displayed from his houss-top,
British, French, American, and Swedish
flags, all waring together, as a type and
piopheay of th* “good time coming.”
The scheme lately proposed by the Corpora
tion, for ths colonisation of Connaught, in
Ireland, by English farmer* and mechanic,
seems doomed to faiiur*. At prasent. all
that has resulted from the proposal, is a few
leading article* in the Twtcs, and a picture
in Punch. A majority of the corporation
committee have reported agiinst the scheme;
the minoritv however, are so anxious for th#
realization of their sanguine hopes, that they
propose carrying out the project as private
speculators, and with that intent te raise a
capital of £500,000.
A preliminary meeting has been held in
I) Burningham, in order to form an association,
for obtaining a repeal of all taxes on know
ledge. The movement is supported by Mr.
Sciiolfield, P. M Mr. George Dawson, and
other gentlemen of influence. Similar aa
rjociaiions are being formed in other important
towns in England and there is reason to
hof-e that the repeal of these moat obnoxious
tax3B will at length be obtained.
Tbe Manchester Examiner says that Mr.
Bright has returned from his touraf inspec
tion in Ireland having visited at least twelve
counties, in all of which the condition of th*
peasantry and of the land has been attentive
ly observed. Say a the Examiner
“Mr. Bright has seen enough to convise*
him of hte absolute necessity of a law to
give security to the tenant for the improve
ments he may create, and it is not improbable
that, should the Govemmeut refuse to legis
late on this all-important subject, Mr. Bright
will be prepared to bring ihe matter helore
Parliament at the opening of next session,
backed by influential opinion from all parts of
Ireland.”
The Bishop of Norwich, who has been
loqg and diservedly popular in England, on
account of his liberal opinions and manly in
dependence, died on the 6th nit., of conges
tion of the brain. He was born in 1779, and
educated at St. Johns College, Cambridge.
‘Dr. Stanley,” says the Daity i\ews, “whilst
other Whig bishops have been retrogtading
rapidly towards Puseyiim and Toryiaro, ad
vanced ia many respects from {mere jwhigge-
Ty to sound Radicalism, and denounced
throughout his diocese, the practice# of th#
Puseyites, which have neitheir root,
nor found favor in any district over which h#
had control.”
A new Fever Hospital has been erected i*
London, capable of accommodating 200
patient*. The building cost .£20,000.
Montes, and the youth who claims to
be her husband, acting upon the advice of
thoir legal advisers, have thought beat to
avoid the decision of the law in the circum
stance of their marriage, and have sudden.y
left London for Paris. The bail—X'looo
fur herself, and two securities at .£*oo each,
will be forfeited. A most lavorable change
has taken place iu the mortality from Cholera
throughout England, and the number ot cases
has declined about one half. From th# com
mencement of th© epidemic 12,837 persons
have been awept away in London. A form
of prayer, to be used in the churches and
chapels with the Establishment,
during the prevelence of the epidemic, has
been agreed upon by the Queen and her
spiritual advisers. There is nothing eith*r
in its atyle or sentiment that entitle# thia pro
duction of Lambeth Palace to any specirl
notice. It ia probably neither belter nor
worae than political prayers usually are. For
our own part, however, we have very littl*
respect for, or confidence in either the faith,
repentance or piety, that can find expression
through such a medium
A frightful railway accident occurred at
Sytham, on the 20th ult. A public Agricul
tural dinner had come off at that place, ai
which upwards of 300 gentlemen were pres
ent. The eompany had barely taken their
seats in the railway cars, when a frightful
eolhaion took place, by wliiqh many of the
paaaengara had their teeth knocked out—
their limbs broken— and tome more seriously,
and as wa# supposed mortally wounded.
The weather during the week has been
variable but upon the whole the labor* of the
harvest had proceeded aatisfaetorily and were
brought nearly to a cloae. The potato disease
is reported to have made considerable progress
in some districts; and a alight advance in
prices has taken place in consequence. Id
Dublin, ths supplies of diseased potato*#
are increasing but the disease la still partial,
and soma kinds of potatoes are not at all af*
facted
A alight (iisiuiliatee had taken plaee at
place called Capp o| n in in Ireland. A poli*e
barrack was attacked, and one of tb# atorm
iug party killad They left forty pikea behind
them. The Queen waa exp<*i#d;to return from
Scotland abeut the 97th.
FaxMoa. A Council of-the Clergy b*a
commenced a# eatings m Fans, and ie attract
ing considerable attention Th, no>[
•truss theologcal doctrines are to form the
subjects o| deliberation/ The meetings are
conducted with great pomp and ceremony.
Almost all the biahop# and diatmgmahed
•lergy of Frence are assisting at the council.
Fresh protective dunes have been imposed
upon the importation of fsreign oil seeds,
with a view to protect tbe culture oi oil
seeds in Algeria. The cholera appeals to
have permanently diminished in Pan*.
Atieiau HiM**av. The last ae*
tounte from Vienna fxttnd to the 15 th ult..
and announce th« suneodei of Peterwtrdeis
to tbe Imponal troopa. Comoro had not
•unendered Tho garrison of tkat fortress
is said to amount to 96,000 or 30,000 men,
well onpplied with provisions, but totally un
disciplined. It is stated that the officers
bars held a meeting, and reed rod by a largo
majority not to surronder. It was rumored
in Vienna, that Bern bad fallen into the
bands of the Russians. According to the
Vienna Journals, General Haynan nod
Kuank art .is busings Comorn, with 90,000
men.
TvtKSY. The Russian ambassadors at
the Porte, hare demanded the delivery of
Kossuth. Dembinslti, and their companions.
A Russian Geneial arrived at Constantinople
on tha 15th. an a special mission to bully tbs
Sultan into compliance with the demands of
A ustria. A souneil was held, and the Turkish
Government resolved not to sarrendor tho
Hungarian refugees to either the Russian or
Austrian Governments, and on this decision
being communicated to the Sultan, he de
elared in the moat impressive and determined
manner that the refugees should not be given
up, let the eonsequeoees be what they might.
Komutkand bis companiens have been fur'
nished with passports from the English am
bassador.—j. s.
The National League.
Salem, N. Y. Sept. 20, 1849-
Frederick Douglass :—lt ia truly gratify*
tng when one learns that a renewed effort is
being made for the attainment of freedom. I
noticed some days since, in the North Star,
two letters touching the formation of a “Lib
erty League” among us, by which means
those of us who fiom various causes are at
iasue on the abolition question, will all be
linked heart and hand; when we will rush
down on oppression like a mountain torrent,
sweeping away every obstacle which dares
to impede the march of freedom.
With a knowledge of the (act that we are
an oppressed people, what must we do? One
says, We have tried to be free, we have
failed therefore freedom is not for ui. Ano
ther saysr-we are too divided ever to be con
centrated upon one idea, we had as well give
up the chase. But not so, let us toil on.
Let our motto be The union of the oppret
ted for the sake of liberty let us form the
“League,” and bind ourselves in sentiment
with a three-fold cord never to be broken.
Oh when that bright day of universal sen
timent shall dawn upon us, what heart so
hard aa shall not be moved What eyes that
will refuse to shed tears of joy? What op
pression that will not give place? What
mortal that will not bow hia face to the dust
and' cry, Great God, virtuous and just is thy
Government! Then away wilt go our clash
ing abolition views, our prejudices in favor of
Methodism, Presbyteramaro, Romanism, or
any other ism extant. We will know each
other as brothers, and laborers in the cause
of freedom, working opon the same platform
for the accomplishment of the same end. I
would suggest alter the people had become
fully acqusntod with the subject of the “Lib
erty League” that a National Convention be
called to meet at the moat central point in the
free states. Then, and there, let an instru
ment of writing be drawn which every mem
ber will swear to maintain as did the fathers
Df 76—the instrument banishing forever
world without end, those opinions on which
we are almost certain to make shipwreck
when we come in contact.
When we shall have reached this summit
of reform, we can defy all the machinations
of slavery, all the schemes of Southerners,
and their allies, for we will have God and
Justice on our side. We will be like the
house built upon a rock; against which every
opposition wind may blow, but can do us jio
harm. Our children shall have to perform,
upon the same platform from which we are
passing. We cannot leave them a better in
heritance than good and noble examples.
Gold, houses, and lands perish in thejusage
but lessons of virtue, loyalty, and unflinching
adherence to right, follow them through life
to the grave, and then bloom out upon their
offspring.
Cheer up! Come, up brethren, to-the woik,
with your armor burnished, determined never
to be conquered. N.
Kidnapping in Harrisburg.
Harrisburg, Sept. 30 1849,
Friend Docglass.—During the past week
a family of live or six persons arrived in this
plane, from the peculiar, contented, happy,
religious, pious and Christian Institution o.
the South, and feeling themselves secure
from the grasp of bloodhounds of the south
aad north, who are ever ready to scent the
track of the flying bondman.
They dismantled tbemsrlves of those ha
biliments by which a fugtive from the pecu
liar Institution may be known, and set them
selves nmvn to rest. They, however, were
not permitted to rest in peace.
On Saturday the 29th, inst., as one of;
their number was passing along Front street
on the river bank, he was pursueed by two
men, and after a considerable chase they
overtook him, and endeavored to get him to
the bridge. Fortunately, two colored men
observing the chase, joined the parlies, and
effected the release of the fugitive, hia pui
suers making good their escape across the
liver.
The seizure of a man in open day in one
of the most public thoroughfaiea of the Cap
ital, for the purpose of reducing him to bon
dage, did, as might be expected, meate a
considerable excitement among tbe citizens.
The friends of humanity, understanding
that the “slave catchers,” on the other side
of the river had a considerable force, thoeght
it best to remove the fugitives to a place
where they would be secute until [evening,
when they would be put onj their northern
journey. Presuming from what bad trans
pired that an effort would be made to recap
ture the fugitives in the evening, same twen
ty-five or thirty perons assembled in tha
neighborhood where the fugitives were se
creted, for the purpose of affording them
protection.
The Constable af the Borough,” who
it was thought was acting in concert with tbe
slave catchers, came up to the peraoua who
had thus assembled, and ordered, them to dis
perse, as As considered the ass emblsge un
lawful. He was loldßhatthey 'had mat there
for a peaceable purpose, and tbal they did
not feel inclined to remote until they had
that Seeing thst he
could not accomplish Am
report*ln* iaiereitw w*k dm M Msb,’—ai
bo atyM it, to the sheriff, arid a* short time
the sheriff sppesred a ofno in propnm per
uma m terror**. He without inquiring
whet was the reuse of the sasentbiafe, afto
being informed that it was peaceable, orderly
aad quiet, cotnmeoeed together with hia
posse, without orderiag them to disperse,
to beat them with their dabs and sticks.
The Colored men retaliated, and the resell
was that Urn Sheriff and his posse were en
tirely vanquished, and not to flight. Not
being satisfied with their first adventure and
feeding, as they said, that the hooor of the
community was at make, they put a wil
ful falsehood in circulation, that the colored
people were assembling h Short Street foe
the purpose of mobbing Urn whites. Mes
sengers were dispatched, with this falsehood,
to the different grog-shops is town, for the
purpose of raising recruits. Failing, how
ever, to procure a sufficient number, by that
course of piocedure, and, after holding a
counsel at the corner of Short Street, they
thought it would be necessary to call out the
military. Accordingly, a requisition was
made on Captain W. Foster for the use oi
his Company to quell a riotous disposition,
that existed among the colored people, in
Short Street. The Company, with great
alacrity, obeyed the call, and about 11 o’clock
other good citizens of the Borough were ar
oused from their slumber, by the sound oi
the fife and dram, of Captain W’s Company
on their way to the scene of the riot, to
shoot down,as they said, the d d niggers.
They joined the Sheriff and his' party at the
corner of Third and Market, and this molt,
headed by the constable of the Borough with
two large horse pistols, moved boldly forward
to the ssene of action.
Finding on their arrival that the neighbor
hood was peaceable, and that there was noth
ing for them to quell, ihey commenced treat
ing and knocking the colored men who were
standing before their own doors. One man,
was knocked down at his own door, and
dragged to jail, and on the next morning,was
admitted to bail in the sum of one hum!red
dollars to answer the charge of riot, at the
next Criminal Court. Another who was
standing as a spectator was knocked down,
ttid kicked and thumped till they got him to
prison with the cry of kill the d d nigger.
A third was chased a considerable distance
and finding they could not oveitake him they
fired after him, but fortunately, he escaped
unhurt. On Morxfty morning three airests
were made but the stool pigeons, not be
ing able to prove that they had broken the
peace that they had participated in the
riot, they were promptly dismissed.
The proceedings of the Sheriff Shell,
and his mob are loudly condemned by the res
pectable portion of the Citizens, and they
think he has transcended his duty in theis
case.
It is generally thought, that the Sheriff and
Constable were under instructions from the
Slave-catchers, and that their effort to dis
perse the colored people, was uothing more,
than to give the kidnappers a chance to con
lummate theii object. Be this as it may, they,
and the kidnappers, were entirely frustrated
in their design. Mure of this hereafter.
Yours i* the cans# ef the Slave,
JULIUS.
Sept. 99, 1849.
To Henry H. Garnet —I was sorry to
tee in the North Star of the J7th inst. such
i bitter and vindictive reply to Frederick
Douglass, malignant and slanderous attack on
thee in reference to thy expected visit to Eng
land.
If talented and influential colored men,
must fill their papers with such kind of Anti-
Slavery, I apprehend that considerate and
conscientious persons will not think the cause
of humanity and the brotherhood of the race
will be much promoted by their support.
You certainly onght not to let a disagree
ment an a proposition to send Bibles to the
Slaves divide you, any more than a proposi
tion to send the Slaves to the Moon.
PUNY SEXTON.
Morals ok Nashville. —A few days since
the police of Nashvills(Tenn.)made a descent
into the house of a low prostitute, known as
“Dutch Lize," whom they suspected of has
boring thieves. Instead of wolves, however,
they found a couple of wolves in sheeps clo
thing, namely, the Rev. P. P. Weeley, and
Rev. Mr. Holland, of the Methodist Church
These men weie dressed in disguise, and at
the time were bargaining with some of the in
mates for a night's lodging. Both were ar
rested and committed to the calaboose. Mr.
H. was advertised to preach in the Methodist
church on the morning following his arrest.
A subsequent dispactfostates that both the rev
erend rascals have been suspended from fhe
ministry.— Boston Rep.
4k
The Boston Strike. The “striking"
journeymen tailors of Boston, have opened a
clothing store on their own account, at No v
88 Ann street in that city.
Good Post-Office Regulation.—By a re
cent regulation of the Post Office Department
auv letter having the writer's name and resi
dence engraved on the seal or written on
the outside, of the letter, aod not finding the
party to whom the same is addressed, will be
returned to the writer immediately through
ihe Post Office, and not through the d *ad let
ter office, by which regulation considerable
anxiety and loss of time will be prevented.
A Truth. —The parent who would train up
a child in tbs way he should go, must go in
the way that be would tiain up the child.
Aye—an ounce of example is worth whole
tons of precept; and there would be a great
saving of scolding and whippings, if people
could learn to govern themselves before they
undertook u> govern others. Be a living les
son in your own proper individuality, and
there is but little fear but that those who look
up to you will follow in the foot-steps of their
illustrious predecessor but if you undertake
to bully or thump juveniles into the practice
of virtues which with you are only matters of
theory, the success of the experiment is doubt
ful, to say the least of it. They are much
more apt to set as yon set, than to set as you
say ami you will often find them aa a mir
ror in which your own faults are reflected, it
maybe exaggerated. Go, therefore, in the
way in which you would train up a child—
leading the van, with all due consideration
for the weakness and inexperience ef the fee
ble ones who are thus called upon to follow,—
not expectif*g too much from untried limbs,
or rebuking too harshly tbs missteps and
stumbling of those who are weaker than
jwrmMSt. Lorn, tetnUe.
Well Sain.—The Clisabndtroe Democrat
in alluding to the return of a young man, to
that city, who voluntumed to aueod the sick
and dying of the pmtflwm Sandusky city,
B *rtLs of ibsoa real heroes in life, Amec
Moore, has just arrived from Suudnaky—
worn down with tfcu toagum of nararng and
*T«W4 MM*
will crowd round milrtarv brawler, and boa
at km. tad hang upon dreeriptioWß of bloody
deeds sad boms* botdwrr, as if it wore mil
ranure. And brae ts a real bera, M wba
has (aaaod the fevered brow of the stnager,
watched the siek friend, was sane and phy
sician to all be eoold attend. whether straw*
get or friend, —one who, amid pestilence and
death, w» tree—aid who wiW seek to fire
him bis place, or mole ant to Idm bin reward’
No matter. He haa it whbia. God will gire
bun both shore.
Mr. Moore has left simply for real, and will
i eturp to Sandusky to-morrow. The scene of
woe he has witnessed, be declares no too foe
can describe. The terrors of the pestilence,
in its fearful malignity,- an imagination can
eoneetre. Sandnsky has been like a doomed
pi ace.
Ftikisa Plates.
Mrs. Swissbelm shows no merey to tba
Fashion Plates of our monthlies. She says:
Oar fashion mongers might gire os any
kind of a bundle of drapery that pleased their
fancy, and the effect would be comparatively
harmless, if they left any room to suppose
there might be a woman inside. Or it they
would gire us the shape of a garment hong
on a clothes horse, and leave the idea that it
might be put on a woman, it weald simply
be a fashion for clothes, but it is aot the form
of clothing which they pretend to regulate,
but the shape of the people. If people were
made of tallow ami spermaceti—csrald be
thrown into a kettle, melted and remoulded
like broken candles, these fash ion-makers
could scarcely take more liberties with tbeir
formation.
“In the front of a Magazine you will
likely find a portrait of a woman aa God made
her that is, given simply as a fancy sketch;
over a few leaves you will find the reality ot
life—woman as faskion has made her; and
very much resembles the earth in the begin
ning, ‘without fotm and void,’ giving one the
idea the artist haa taken some days to work
before his-production can be called finished.’
Now, if these fashion-monsters are any
body's ideal of womanhood, why not make
the naked pictures and statuary —the fancy
sketches—in the same shape? Or why not
give us fashions that look as if they could be
worn by healthy woman with a perfectly de
veloped form 1
The idea of dressing the ‘Greek Slave’
has been very much ridiculed by the lovers of
art. but the Greek Slave might be conver
ted into a public benefactor by being dressed
and exhibited all over the country—by hav
ing all the new fashions put on her first
made to fit her, and then sitting or standing
and giving her portrait for our fashion plates.
Modists could not squeeze her marble aides
into the vhape of a funnel or a jug; and if
•ur fashion plates were taken from her, wo
men would not imagine this the only gen
teel shape.
Wa are not jesting—nor exaggerating—
the form of most of our fashion plates posi
tively reminds us of nothing so much as a
funnel or a jug. Artists say there is no
straight line about a human form; but in a
face view of one of these figures, the lines
from under the arms down to the wsist—-and
that is the entire distance from the armpit to
the hip—is as straight as a rule could mako
it—an inclined plane, a bsvsl, giving the idea
of the side of a funnel. Thsre is no com*
such as nature makes, such as health and
grace require. How artists—who ought to
have an eye for the beautiful —can be hired
to commit these outrages on the Graces, is
more than we can tell. The amount ot dis
ease and death that have been caused by
imitating the straight line, by pressing in
the sides below' the ribs, to form the funnel
outline, is far past the cholera statistics.”
Notitca.
An Appeal In behalf of the Western
New York Anti-Slavery Fair.
Earnestly desiring the abolition of Slavery
in this land, and being deeply convinced that
this result can only be accomplished by renew
ed efforts to change our present corrupt moral
sentiment, the undersigned members and
friends of the Western New York Anti-slavery
Society, again make their appeal to the
friends of the Slave in behalf of their annual
Bazaar, which will be held in Rochester in
December next.
While we have been cheered and gladdened
bv the progress already made, and the good
'll(eadv done, and while we rejoice to observe
that friends have been raised up to plead the
cause of the bondman among persons, and in
quarters where we had least expected them,
we still see the “harvest to be great and the
laborers to be few,” and instead of relaxing
our efforts, we are impressed \nth a sense of
the duty of doubling our diligence, and ap
plying more closely our energy to the means
If advancing this holy appeal the
more boldly to our ftiantto because those for
whom we plead cannot plead lor themselves.
While we are surrounded by our domestic
circle, with none to molest or make us afraid,
there are three millions of men and women in
our own land, doomed to abject Shivery and
chains. Tobbed of every right—civil—social—
personal—and political. Remembering those
uf bonds as bound with them, we desire to
plead their cause as though they were on our
Swn limbs, and the knotted lash were applied
to our own backs.
While to obtain means for enlightening the
public mind, is the strong motive for holding
our annual Fair, it is not the only ooe A
great amount of good may be traced direvtlv
to such occasions. Many who are now ac
tive workers in behalf of ibis holy movement
became first interested in it through the in
strumentality of those annual exhibitions of
anti-slavery industry, tact and skill.
The present object of the Rochester anti
slaverv Bazaar is for the general enlighten
ment of the public mind ou the subject of sla
very. Recognizing the North Star, (published
in Ous city) as an efficient Anti-Slavery in
strumentality, we propose that the
by the Sale of articles at the
behalf of which we here appeal) ahall be
mainly appropriated to tht support ot that
-ISSS& acknowledge the prompt as
aistance rendered to out last Fair by our
friends and coadjutors in
owu State, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and we
earnestly solicit «be»r continued co-operation
trilh us in the good woik. That no time may
be lost we especially recommend to them the
tJSSm Of Kwißg CM. »nta.
to out British friends for the valoabte aid ex
tended by them to our lam yeti’s Fair and
wTwould again warmly sohcit their generous
is due to our tiaes-AUanuc
friends to say that for much of the interest felt
MrtM u, .ta™,
co-operation MM
approach.. Doeetrdm
and the advancement of the cause of the slave
1,1 We top* that the foregoing appeal^wfil
commend itself to out philanthropic friends on
llh -juipg 0 f the Allan us, and that they will
eogitally write with w the tftnt here pro
posed -^^keisrorost
Slnuh' >til behest?
|3f.p life’s hole spas
via flint ca- dssds it t» ths test—
Test of the high bora sssl.
Of cvsry hssarod Mh. __
\om- bm ths Bravo dhah wis the goal-
Sigoed on behalf of the Fawfjirrj^
Antal «f Ike An«rl«tl*r
Aimiuoo ofPtoM*
u> a Jbeoftutan p«Wic,
STftiiSli rf tht 9l»t#
then m thcfc nihiM Fur. tfci ob-
Ml of whit* w to aoottia the “Norik- Sim
To thane who no fearikai wi4h ttafi |*fM of
fons boor it io uoMMurr to toook of ilo
■no. To ihaae who haw oot moo it wa
maj nj, that wo reward it as ooe of the wry
boot aoti-obwn ioatnunentmlitiaa aow to the
field.
Wo ate the oon ialßMaiodiott, heeanoo
adambif qualified hf hiataloato and moral
worth, to perform with credit tho aidaooa
task of editing a paper devoted to oar eleva
tion. We believe and treat that oot friends
will five os their liberal aid.
To our own people wo look earnestly ank
hopefully. Sisters, Biol here, shall
iovaio l The non baaeoterod into yoor snob.
To go heavily, bowed down to the wry doat,
dispirited, crashed by the weight of oppree
aioo. Ye bear the taunts of the enemy.
“They are so ignorant and unrefined' They
are jealous of one ether? Yes, they unite
but it io ooly to pot down one who ia mow
intellectual than the aaam!” Prow by the
unerring htnguige of eooduct that these as
sertions so often thrown in our faces are ma
licious slanders. Sustain F. Douglas*, be
cause his talents and correct principles de
mand yoor respect and confidence. Sustain
him because it is right to do so, and becaosa
of the sweet peace the performance of so wor
thy an action will aaaotedly bring it into your
beaotns.
The Fair will be bold on Christmas week.
Donations for it may be sent to
HARRIET SMITH, 310 Lombard-street,
RACHEL LLOYD, 303 Pine-street,
AMY M. CASSEY, 113 Lombard-street,
Or to any member of the Association.
Elizabeth Aprs, Lydia Ans Bvbtill,
MaBY BABBOTT, HkTTY BcRB,
Louisa Bristol, Hetet Johnson,
Hester Bust ill, Eliza Jones,
Charlotte Mills.
SARAH M. DOUGLASS, Cor, Sec*y.
No 54 Mullberry st.
Philadelphia, 6th mo., 25. 1849.
“RiTHEIt DOUSTIVr.IT, RUT ITMOrOHTI;
would try it.” Mr. Sloan—Sir: I had a fiae
young hone which was taken w ith the scratches
hot tall. I paid out about three dollars for medi
cine to cure him but be grew worse. I then bought
a boa of your Ointment at your office when in Chi
cago but, (rather doubtingly, but I thought I would
try it.) Judge of my surprise and my opinion of
its beneficial qualities, when I found ray horse’s
legs smooth and well in four days from the timo I
conuaei ced applying it. Your obed*t
E. F. COOK.
WicKLirrc, Cook Co., Feb. IS, ’4B.
(P* See Agents’ names at the head of Sloan s
Column. For further [particulars and testimonials
get pamphlets of agents.
Remember the only original and genuine WIS
TAR’S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY, was
introdued in the year 1838, and has been well ten-,
ted in all the complaints for which it is recommen
ded. Eor ten years it lias proved more efficacious
as a remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenxa, Bron
chitis, Asthma and Consumption in its incipient
stages, than any other medicine.
SETH W. FOWLE, Druggist, No. 138 Wash-
I ington street, Boston, Mass., is the sole proprietor
of the original receipt for the manufacture of the
i genuine medicine, aad supplies both at whoesale
and retail, and of whom agencies can be obtained:
Dr. Wm. A. Shaw says, I wish heartily the
1 success of vour medic up. I consider overycase of
arrest of the fatal symptoms of pulmonary disease
ias a direct tribute to suffering humanity suid so
hopeless are these cases generally, that physicians
are always justified in using any remedy which has
signally benefitted others. One thing is certain:
the public have always a guaranty that paient med
icines will generally oe sustained only just so long
ias they are well prepared and continue to reliove
or cure.
In a more recent letter be says—“ As W istar s
balsam of Wild Cherry is the only patent medicine
to which I have ever given ray public recotnenda
tion, I shall not be suspected by the candid of giv
ing rash or precipitate testimony to what I have
seen and heard of its effects.”
Of herself, Fredrika Bremer itji:
if it should so happen that, as regards
me, any one should wish to cast t kind
glance behind the curtain which con
ceals a somewhat uneventful hie, he
may discover that I was born on the
banks of the Aura, a river, which flows
through AJ>q, and that several of the
venerable and learned men of the uni
versity were in) god-fathers. At the
age of three, I was removed, with eiy
family, from my native country of Fin
land. Of this part of my life, I have
only retained one single memory.
This memory is a word a mighty name,
which, in the depths of paganism, was
pronounced by the Finnish people with
fear and love; and is still so pronoun
ced in these days, although perfected
by Christianity. I still fancy that I often
hear this word spoken aloud over the
trembling earth by the thunder of Thor,
I or by the gentle winds which bring re-
I frcshment and consolation. That word
,s—Jumala; the Finnish name for God,
both in pagan and Christian times.
If any one kindly follows roe from
Finland into Sweden, where my father
purchased an estate after he had sold
his property in Finland, I would not
trouble him to accompany me from
childhood to youth, with the inward
elementary chaos, ajid the outward,
uninteresting, and commonplace pic
ture of a family, which every autumr
removed, in their covered carraige
Irom their estate in the country, tc
their house in the capital; and ever)
spring trundled back again from theii
i house in the capital to their country
seat; nor how there were young daugh
ters in the family who played on the
piano, sang ballads, read novels, drew
in black chalk, and looked forward with
longing glances to the future, when
they hoped to see and do most wonder
ful things. With humility, I must
confess, I alw’ays regarded myself as
a heroine.
Casting a glance into the family cir
cle, it would be seen that they collect
ed, in the evening, in the great draw
-1 ing room of their country house, anc
read aloud; that the works of the Ger*
man poets were read, especially Schil
ler, whose Don Carlos made a profounc
impression upon the youthful mind o:
one of the daughters particular.
A deeper glance into her soul, wil
show' tiiat a heavy reality of sorrow wa;
spreading, by degrees, a dark clouc
over the splendor of her youth.u
dreams. Like early evening, it earn*
over the path of the young pilgrim o
life; and earnestly, but in vain, she en
deavored to escape it. The air wai
dimmed as by a heavy fall of snow
darkness increased and it became night
And in the depth of that endless win
ter night, she heard lamenting voice?
from the east, and from the ivest; from
plant and from animal; from dyiug nu
-1 ture and despairing humanity; and she
saw life with all its beauty, its love, iti
I throbbing heart, buried alive beneath
chill covering of ice. Heaven seemec
dark and void;— there seemed to hei
no eyes, even as there was no heart
All was dead, or rather all was dyinj
—excepting pain.
There is a significant picture at tin
commencement, in every mythology
In the beginning there is a bright. an<
warm, and divine principle; w'hich allie:
itself to darkness; and from this unior
of light and darkness—of fire and tear
—proceeds a God. I believe tha
something similar to this takes place ii
every human being who is born to i
deeper life; and something similar tool
place in her who writes these lines.
Looking at her a few' years later, i
will be seen that a great change ha:
taken place in her. Her eyes hav<
long been filled with tears of unspeaka
ble joy; she is like one who had arisei
from the grave to new life. What ha:
caused this chafige? Have her splen
did youthful dreams been accomplshed
Is she u heroine? Has she becomi
victorious in beauty, or renown f No
nothing of the kind. The illusions o
youth are past —the season of youth i
over. A.ud yet she is again young
for there is freedom in the depth of he
soul, and let there be light” has pen
etrated the darkness, and illumined tin
I night, whilst, with her eye fixed upoi
that light, she has exclaimed, with tear:
of joy, “Death where is thy sting
Grave where is thy victory f”
Many a grave since then has beei
opened to receive those she tendfrlj
loved many a pang has been telt sinci
then; hut the heart throbs joyfully, anc
the dark night is over. V es, it is over
but not the fruit which it has borne
for there are certain flowers which firs
unfold in the darkness; so is it also ir
the midnight hours of great suffering
the human soul opens itself to the ligh
of the eternal stars.
If it be desired to hear anything o
my writings, it may he said that the)
began in the eighth year of my age
when I apostrophised the moon ir
French verses, and that during tha
part of my youth I continued to writ*
in ti:e same sublime strain. I wrote
under the impulse of restless, youlhfu
feelings—l wrote in order to write
Afterwards I seized the pen under the
influence of another motive, and wroU
—that which I had read.
HORRIBLE ADVENTURE.
The writer of the following letter,
having been out shooting at Kirdee,
near Poonah, lay down to rest under a
tree, when suddenly he was aroused by
'he furious baying of his dogs. On
turning round, 1 beheld a anake of the
cobra da capella species, directing ite
course to a point that would approxi
mate very closely on my position: is
an instant I was on my feet. The mo
ment the reptile became aware of my
presence, in nautical phraseology, il
boldly brought to, with expanded hood,
eyes sparkling, and neck beautifully
arched, and the head raised about two
feet from tha ground, and oscillating
from side to side, in a manner plainly
indicative of a relentless foe. I seized
•he nearest weapon, a short bamboo,
left by the baaters, and hurled it at my
opponent ’a head, I was fortunate en
ough to hit beneath the eye. The rep.
tile immediately>ll, and lay apparently
lifeless. Without a moment's reflection
1 seized it a lulls below tba head, haul*
ad it beneath the shelter of a tree and
very coolly began to examine (be mouth
for the poisoned fangs, of which natu
ralists apeak so modi.
While in the act of forcing open the
month with a stalk, I felt the head sfi-
I ding through my hand and to mr as
tonishment became aware that I had
i now to dontead with the moat deadly of
reptiles in its foH strength and vigor
1 Indeed I was in a moment convinced of
this, for as 1 tightened my hold of the
throat, its body became wreathed
around my neck and arms. If the]
reader is aware of the universal dread
in which the cobra de oapeUa is held
throught India, and the almost instant
I death which invariably follows its bite,
he will in some degree be able to ira
agine what my feelings were at that
moment; a faint kiud of disgusting
sickness pervaded my whole frame, as
I felt the clammy fold of the reptile
lightning round my neck. I still held
the throat but to hold it much longer
would be impossible.
Immediately under my grasp there
i was an inward working and creeping
i of the skin, which seemed to be assist
ed by the tightness with which 1 held
it—my hand was gloved. Finding in
defiance of my efforts, that my hand
each moment was forced closer to my
ace, an idea struck me, that were it
fn my power to transfix the mouth with
some sharp instrument, it would pre
sent the reptile from using its tangs
hould it escape my hold. My gun lay
at my feet, the ram rod appeared to be
the very thing required, which, with
some difficulty I succeeded in drawing
out, having only one hand disengaged.
My right hand was trembliog with over
exertion, and my hold became less firm
when 1 happily succeeded in passing
the rod through its upper jaw to its cen
tre. It was not without considerable
hesitation that I let go my held of the
throat, and seizing the rod with both
hands, at the same time, brought them
over my head with a sudden jerk, and
disengaged the fold from iny neck,
which had been almost tight enough to
produce strangulation, lhere was
then but little difficulty in freeing my
right arm, and ultimately throwing the
reptile from me to the earth, where it
continued to twist itselt into a thousand
contortions of rage and agony. To
run to a neighboring stream, to bathe
my neck, hands and lace in its cooling
h w’aters, was my first act after dispatch
ing my formidable enemy. This con
cludes a true, though plainly told tale.
1' As a moral, it may prove that when
1 a man is possessed of determination,
l coolness, and energy, combined with
reason, he will generally, come off tri
uinphant, though Ire may have to cir
ri cumvent the subtlety ot the snake, oi
the ferocity of the tiger.
HEALTH OF CITIES.
As a general rule, when a body it
examined after death, whether of a
child or adult, one or more organa are
found in a diseased state; a fact which
I induced a physician to state that he
looked upon every adult he met in the
1 streets of London, as a walking mu*
Iseumof morbid anatomy.
1 One grand means to prevent such
diseases, is to have well ventilated
houses, and to keep the air in motion
for in warm weather the air always
contains a large quantity of animal anc
vegetable matter, in the form of ova o
infusoria and the seeds of vegetable or
-1 ganisms. The act of breathing, too,
is a great cause of rendering the ail
1 j impure.
i The air in the lungs is exposed tc
L 170,000,000 of cells, having a surface
1 equal to thirty times that of the body
1 so that during respiration, the air it
deprived of oxygen amd becomes load
ed with deadly carbonic acid gas,anc
is rendered totally unfit for a seconc
respiration, being no longer atmospher
:i ic air, but a poisonous gas. A seconc
cause of the deterioration of air, is the
1 combustion of lamps, gas lights, can
-5 dies, 6tc. A single candle is nearly ai
injurious to the air as a human being;
two fourteen hole argand burners con
suine as much ait as eleven men.
A third source of atmospheric impu
rity is the vapor, loaded with anitna
5 matter, given off from the lungs anc
the skin; each of these parts pour oui
r an ounce of fluid every hour; so that
in a church containing 500 people, 15
gallons of noxious fluid are given of
1 in two hours.
J; A fourth source of bad air in towni
is the large quantity of decomposing
animal and vegetable matter left tc
give off efHuvia, and the difficulty there
|is in the renew al of the air in towns b)
means of the w inds, on account of the
1 vicious mode of their construction, anc
their very large size.
Certain diseases are traceable to the
1 want of fresh air; such as fever, con
-1 sumption, scrofula, deafness, and thai
most fertile ongin ot numerous disea
»es, the commoni cold.
In England and Wales 1*20.000 peo
pie die annually of consumption, anc
i the geater number of cases is amonjj
indoor laborers; and m the city of New
York, about 3,300 die of consumption
per annum, most of these being confin
ed within doors.
One grand means ot promoting health
would be the construction of better ven
ulated houses. No living, sleeping,
ior working room should contain lest
i than 144 superficial feet, nor be lest
than a feet high, and it should have
one window at least, opening at the top,
also an open fire-place to the chim
i ney.
Every building in which uaed
should have plans to carry off the pro
ducts of combustion and not allow them
to escape into the room, and also to
supply fresh air.
Diseases that arise from a want of
ventilation are a scourge to society.
Those who are merciful to animals
should not forget that they need plenty
«#f fresh air likewise. This we are
sorry to say, is but little thought of by
the majority; horses are housed most
miserably, in our cities, and this is one
great cause .of a disease called the
heaves.
The high rents for both dwelling
bouses among the poor, and for stabler
of our carmen are no doubt the cause
of potting op with mall apartments.
What the remedy for this evil is, we
sre not able to divine, and a great and
growing evil it is.
Slay hot until to-morrow, and yoor
present sorrow will be weary, and will
lie down to reel. [Jeremy Taylor
Fra» the Wmr« Cuwm
JOHH IAHS-THS ILATE OF
EIGHTY YCABS.
I vu born in (he Stele of Maryland
—wee quite i little boy when the battle
of Bunker Hill vaa fought, but can
recollect that I carried weter to cool
the parched lips of our poor aoldiere,
on that dreadful day. From my eer
lieet recollection up to the age of four
teen, I aubeiated on pounded corn,
which I procured after night, wecook
ed it in a pot and after aetting it on the
floor, we ueed wooden ledlea to eat it.
My master’a doga fared aa well—for we
lived much the same. My first mas»-
ter’a name was McKowen. Himself
and wife both died when I was about
the age of fourteen, I was sold for a
bat full of money, to Jas. McChesney
—who bad some forty or fifty little fel
lows like myself; our business was to
tend tobacco— pull off worms, sucker
it, foe., while the overseer went in the
rear and watched us, and for the
least failure we had to take a severe
whipping.
I did not live long with him, for he
soon died, and I was sold to Zady
Macknigbt, an Irishman; he lived in
Virginia, was a cruel man; used to tie
me up to a sapling and give me a se
i vere whipping, and frequently I did not
know what it was for, but supposed it
i was because he was an Irishman. He
punished all his blacks in this way, and
i then salted their backs. He made us
work on the place all the week, and on
Sunday hunt hogs, sheep, cows, Sic.,
for him. My master and mistress both
dying, I was traded, in company with
i several other blacks, by his son, for
land on James River. Mv new mas*
ter’s name was Holman; he was a good
i man; clothed and fed us much bettei
than any I had ever lived with,
i Twice after this, I was traded foi
H land, and two or three times for money
i All my life, and you see I am now ur
old man, has been spent in toiling anc
sweating for others. Often have J
I worked till miduight, and frequently ir
a push—all night, with an overseer tc
whip us for the least failure in duty
t while we had no one to intercede foi
I us. My food for the most of my lift
has been one peck of corn a week,
s with occasionally a hog’s head or pinch
and sometimes a little buttermilk. My
bed has been a single blanket.
In this way, have I passed TO years
of my life; when fortunately falling intc
i the hands of a man named Cox, and his
wife wanting money bad, she offered, i
i I would give her what I had, to give
me my liberty. I had made by cent!
and picayunes, the sum of $l5O, which
r I gave, and am now a MAN.
I had a wife and three children; twe
!of them were taken from me wher
young and sold South; one now lives
i on an Island in the Mississippi River
l He was formerly owned by a man
t living..some sixty miles in Missouri,
i but on account of some failure, he hac
his blacks taken from him and publicly
i sold. Hearing that my son would be
sold on a certain day, I started on foot,
to see him for the last time. The dis
i tance was 70 miles, and I was 80 years
I of age. I hurried with all my strength;
when within some fifteen miles of the
i place, I met an old friend. He said,
1 your son will be sold to-day at 1 o’clock
f take my horse and push for your life,
if you wish to see him before he goes
South. On reaching the spot, my son
and wife were both on the block. A
Southerner was bidding one dollar at a
time against a farmer who bid a pica
yune. I sprang from my horse, and
pressed my way to my child, who was
5 deepfy affected a to see me. He said
that he would be compelled to gc
South; that the individual bidding
against the farmer, was a slave driver.
I went instantly to the farmer and
told him, if he would continue bidding,
I would give him fifty dollars out of my
own pocket. Soon the auctioneer criec
i $B5O, and the farmer’s bid and my
throbbing spirit had rest.
You may rely on this statement as
correct.—l. d. h.
I Some of the English railway compa-
I nies now issue insurance tickets to
t their passengers. A first class passen
f ger may, on buying his ticket, by pay
ing three pence extra, have his life in
f sured for the journey to the extent oi
£lOOO, payable, if he is killed, to his
legal representatives, and compensatior
f for personal injury if life is not lost
A second class passenger may insure
for £5OO, for two pence and a third
r class, £2OO, for one penny.
i
Lazv Beavers.—lt is a curious
foct. says our trapper, that among the
beavers there are some that are laay,
and will not work at all, either to assist
in building lodges or dams, or to cut
down wood for their winter stock.
The industrious ones beat these idle
follows away; sometimes cutting off a
i part of their taH uud otherwise injur
mg them.
Napoleon’s Simple Habits—He
who disposed of crowns and surround
ed himselfwdb royal pomp, was simple
and economical in his habits, and hia
personal expenses were trifling. He
dressed in the morning for the whole
day, despatched his breakfast in a few
minutes, end then worked frequently to
•i* in the evening. He dined alone
with the empress, except on Sundays,
when all the royal family were invited;
and on Wednesdays, when the minis
ters met in council and dined with him.
He bed only one course to dinner, fol
lowed by the deaeert, end be drank lit
tle wine, and eve 2 tbat generally mixed
with water. Fifteen to twC?ty minutes
wee all he took for dinner, and as h.'?
stomach was not overloaded and bts
head was clear, be wee fit for work
immediately. He continued hie labors
after dinner, and seldom put off any
thing to the next day. He slept well
at night, aa calm and as sound as a
child. Ha constitution, naturally
good, and his great temperance, en
abled him to undergo aa enormoue
quantity of labor. Hm industrious life
was only diversified by occasional visits
to tha theatre, or by riding or hunting
in fine wet her. He looked after
kooeehold expenses most strictly.
There was neither waste nor parsimo
ny. He wee an economist because be
loved order; and ho saved net because
he was fond of money, but in order to
Be spent liberally on fit objects.