HONOR TO JOHN GORHAM
PALFREY.
The following article from the Boston
Courier, we have reason to believe, is from
the pen of Charier Sumner, Esq., of Boston:
The feeling with which Mr. Palfrey’s
c mrse in Congress was at first regard
ed by many persons, seems to be yield
ing rapidly to a calmer mood. Passion
is subsiding. Reason is beginning to
assert her control. With reason comes
justice. And there are not a few now
who regret the intemperance of con
demnation into which they were plunged
by the unchecked prejudices of party.
It is pleasant to observe these changes,
and especially lo note the expressions
of candor which How from the better
natures of men. It is not to be dis
guised. however, that there is still much
•difference of opinion. The politicians
out-and-out, thick and thin hacks of
partv —with some rare excepti >ns, con
demn Mr. Palfrey. There are others,
who, while regretting that he was not
able to vote according to their convic
tions, vet confess their admiration of his
,'tinmnVss, and their gratitude for his
hiigfc example of an unyielding devotion
itu the conviction ol duty. There are
others «ull particularly beyond the
■pressure of Button opinions, w ho regard
..Lis course with unqualified approbation
and confidence. In the present lull of
disturbing passions, it may be proper to
cons der the character of his votes in
order to sec how they should be justly
regarded.
Ths first was on the Speakership
Mr. Palfrey voted against Mr. W in
throp. In doing so, he sacrificed the
satisfaction which he would doubtless
Jhave derived from aiding in the eleva
tion of a son of Massachusetts, as well
as n personal friend. The sentiment of
State pride (a motive of very humble
character) ami of friendship, w ere dis
regarded. And why? Briefly, for want
of confidence in Mr. Winthrop on cer
tain matters deemed to be ofhigher im
portance than any vure party sweats
Mr. Palfrey is earnestly opposed to the
Mexican war. He knew Mr. Winthi op
had voted for the bill, by which it was
recognized, and by which the dread
powers of war w ere placed in the hands
of the President. He knew that on the
floor of Congress, Mr. Winthrop had
promised to vote supplies for the prose
cution of the war, to obtain peace by
the sword, lie knew that, while many
prominent w ings had publicly regretted
their support of the Winthrop
had failed to relimjufstfTna early error.
In ahorfr Mr. Palfrey knew that Mr.
Wmlhrop, unlike his colleagues of the
Massachusetts delegation, was ranked
in that anomalous body sometime*
known as War Whigs.’ 1 Could an
earnest and uncompromising opponent
of the war be expected to aid in en
trusting to his hands the organization o
the House, destined to affect so mate
rially the great issues of peace 01
war?
THE NORTH STAR.
r But st ill further, Mr. Palfrey is op
posed to the extension “f slavery. H*
is also m favor of tfu' peculiar Mas
sachusetts measures which have sooflei
been discussed in our common wcalt.i,
and on which oar Legislature ha« de-
I dared itself by most explicit resolu
turns, viz: the abolition of slavery in
the District of Columbia, the protection
of our free black fellow citizens in the
ports of South Carolina and Louisiana,
and the constitutional restraint of the
slave power.’ Mr. Palfrey did not re
gard these resolutions as mere words.’
lie considered them as binding. His
own intimate convictions were in har
mony with them. He placed obedience
to them above any mere party success.
It was known that Mr. Winthrop, du
ring his service in Congress, had inad
i equably represented the sentiment vi
I these resolutions—and that he had hes
itated to grapple with the monster evil
which they w ere intending to reach. It
was known that he declared his unwil
lingness to make the extension of sla
very a test question; and that by this
very declaration he had opened the door
to the insidious spirit of compromise.—
Mr. Palfrey doubtless felt that such a
person would not wield the high power
of Speaker in a manner calculated to
promote those measures which he re
garded as of suah paramount impor
tance.
In his views, Mr. Palfrey must have
felt sustained by the opinions of the
larger part of. his constituents. He
was selected with reference to his pe
culiar’ sentiments on the war and sla
very. It was through the favor which
those sentiments found, that he was
chosen at a time when, probably, no
other person calling himself a W hig
could have been elected in his district.
His constituents expressly said to him,
Beware of compromises.’ They charg
ed him expressly to watch the two
questions of the war and slavery— to
be ever true, firm and indexible, on all
matters by which these might be af
fected. Mr. Palfrey assumed his new
duties, as is well known, with great re
luctance, but with the determination to
discharge them firmly, laboriously, up
rightly, without fear or favor, or hope
of reward.
In voting against Mr. Winthrop, he
declined to follow the dictation of par
ty; but he testified his loyalty to his
own convictions of duty, and to those
sentiments which first commended him
to his constituents, and which they re
cognized at the time of his election,
as cardinal principles, higher than
party.
The objections to this course are
two-fold; first, that he interfered with
the election of a son of Massachusetts.
But this objection is petty and evanes
cent, when we think that 'principles
not men,* is the proper rule of political
conduct. The second objection is, that
he endangered the success of the W big
party in the organization of the House,
and indirectly promoted the cause ol the
Democratic candidate. This has been
so often repeated by politicians, that
many careful persons, not especially fa
miliar with the exact state of things at
Washington, have received it as true.
It is, however, a mistake. The Demo
cratic party was in a fixed minority. It
could not have succeeded, except by
the treachery of Whigs in voting for
their candidate. It was, doubtless, the
hope of Mr. Palfrey and many others,
if the opposition to Mr. Winthrop had
prevailed, to rally in support of Mr.
Caleb B. Smith, of Indiana, a gentle
man possessing largely the confidence
of the Whig party, and of the most de
cided opinions on the subject of the war
and slavery. If it should be said that
he could not have received the support
of the so-called Southern Whigs, the
answer is two-fold; first this cannot be
certainly known until tried; and second,
if they had opposed his election, as it is
supposed they would have done, in or
der to protect slavery, they would have
amply shielded by their example those
Northern members, who voted against
Mr. Winthrop in order to protect Peace
and Freedom. But it is not necessary
to venture into speculation on this head.
.Vo Democratic candidate could have
been elected. This was seen and virtu
ally confessed by Mr. Holmes, a Dem
ocrat of South Carolina, who left the
House on the third ballot, and thus aid
ed in the election of Mr. Winthrop. If
there had been any hope of the election
of a Democrat, by protracting the dif
ference among the Whigs, w'ould t a
Democratic member have helped Mr.,
Winthrop? Clearly not. Mr. Hollaed
is a wise slaveholder, and he distinctly
«aw that the chances of his own party
were desperate—and out of his ow n
party he preferred —not Mr. Smith, but
Mr. W inthrop.
It might be added, however, that even
if the final success of a W big candi
date hud been endangered, ya conclu
sion which is denied,) yet Mr. PaLrSJ
could hardly be asked to sacrifice his
cherished convictions. He might justly
say, I will support hig candidates
so long as they represent my principles
and those of mv constituents, but no
longer.” And he might well inquire,
if the greater good would not accrue to
the cause of truth, even bv a solitary
and unsuccessful maintenance of his
principles, than by any surrender to the
policy of party, or the constraint of a
regular nomination. The firm upholder
of Truth, although he stands alone,
awakens respect —oftentimes a senti
ment akin to reverence. In ceasing to
be a vulgar fraction of a party, he be
comes a «mij, giving “the world assur
ance of a man.’* A new influence
attaches to his name, and his acts de
rive unwonted force from his peculiar
;and, perhaps, controlling position.
From this survey it seems clear that
I Mr. Palfrey’s vote against Mr. Win
throp docs nut afford any just ground
RIGHT OF NO SEX-THI’TH T* OF NO nnirm-<*lo 1* TIIK FATHER OK F« ALL. AM* ALL Wl \RK. BRETHREN
for censure. Those who do not cor
d.ally approve it, cannot, with pro
priety, condemn the act, when all tin
circumstances are considered w hich an
connected with it.
It has been said, however, that hi:
vote in favor of Mr. Campbell, a slave
holder, for clerk, was inconsistent witl
his opposition to Mr. Winthrop. Thi.«
is a mistake. The clerk has no influ
ence over the appo ntinc.it ot' commi;-
tees. He cannot in any sajr affeci
these two. matters —the war and sla
very, which Mr. Fallrey was especially
charged by his constituents to watch
Mr. Palfrey has not subscribed to the
dogma of the Liberty party, never tc
vote for a slaveholder.” His principle
is, never to vote for a person who
may interfere with his principles.'
There is no reason, tfieref> in th‘a
cn«e, why he should not follow the lead
of his party.
But his vote against the \Y big can
didate, for postmaster of the House,
seems to have aroused more angry
feelings than even that on the Speaker
ship. Is it not stranger The otlice ol
postmaster of the House is humble
enough. Its salary is not large; its
duties are irresponsible and petty. It
is understeod, that Mr. Palfrey, when
he became Secretary of our Common
wealth, determined for himself the rule
of conduct which guided him on this
occasion. He declined to use his in
fluence in dismissing from office under
him any persons who were faithtul in
the discharge of their duties, merely on
grounds of a difference of political opin
ions. This* rule certainly commends
itself to all, whose sense of justice is
not entirely benumbed by party. It
ought to win applause especially of
the Whigs, representing, as they pro
fess, the better sentiments of the com
munity, and sharply condemning that
system which is maintained by the
cohesive attraction of public plun
der.” It is proper, that, with a change
of policy, as indicated by a change of
parties, the important functionaries who
may impress their peculiar opinions up
on the country, should be changed.
But it is not just or proper that the
humbler office-holders, who cannot in
any way influence those matters on
which parties hinge, should be driven,
with every political change, from the
duties to which they have just become
accustomed, and in this way, perhaps,
be deprived of their daily bread. Party
is tyrannical when it visits in this way
the homes of the lowly and poor. It is
as heartless as Herod murdering the
Innocents.” In refusing to aid in en
forcing the decree of King Caucus,
against the humble and faithful officer
of the H use, who was well known to
he dependant upon his place for the
means of support ot a large family,
Mr. Palfrey acted in accordance with
his course on a former occasion at
home, and we think in harmony with
the feelings of all w ho do not subscribe
to the savage sentiment, that “to the
victors belong the spoils.” For his
single-handed oppositi ;n to the intro
duction of this principle into the practice
of the Whig paity, he deserves our
best thanks.
Who is there, after this review’ of
Mr. Palfrey’s course, that is ready to
cast the first stone? It appears, that,
on the three different occasions which
have been considered, he acted strictly
in harmonv with his former opinions
and conduct —opinions and conduct
especially sanctioned by his constituents
at the time of his election; that he acted
under a high sense of duty, determined
to be faithful to his conscience rather
than to anv behests of party; that, on
one of the important questions, he was
guided by his uncompromising opposi
tion to the Mexican war and slavery;
while, on another, he was filled with
the determination of doing his duty to
a humble office-holder, even at the cost
of great personal displeasure towards
himself. Surely, such an example is
worthy of regard. It is calculated to
arrest the attention of the country. It
may be the harbinger of a better pe
riod, when the egotism of party shall
be controlled, and adherence to prin
ciples shall be regarded, rather than
the political elevation of men. Such
an example is worthy of Massachusetts,
nurse of the men who, throughout our
historv, have elevated the true cha
racter of our country. It is one of her
brightest possess ons, more precious far
thau all the distinctions of office, or
the rewards of politic al success. Hon Jr
then, to Joun Gorham Palfrey; and
may his country learn to prize the
virtue which is inseparable from his
name!
From tlie Massachusetts Qoarterly Review.
CALHOUN —CLAY—WEBSTER—
BENTON.
BY THEODORE PARKER.
What has been the conduct of the
famuli* men of America? Great State
smen are the mountains of the world
which earliest show* the dawn, and la
test hold the lingering rays of the de
parting sun; foremost prophets of the
day when morning promises to come
most conservative of light when dark
ness shrouds the vulgar plains. But
great Politicians are but the steeples ol
America, whose topmost summit bears
j—a weathercock. There are, in Ame
i rica, am'mg her children, four famous
I men. We shall not now discuss their
general merits,' nor attempt to decide
whether they are politicians who inter
-1 pret the interests of a party, or states
men who incarnate principles in a na
tion's life. These four tower far above
the vulgar mass that drive a thriving
trade in politics; are roost conspicuous
men —beheld far off at sea. They have
been long in pobhe life, and ail four
ROCHESTER, N. Y., FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1818.
mav be deemed competitor* Tor the
chair of the President.., hat has been
their conduct Mr. Benton s poke nobly
1 again«t annexation, and—voted for it;
j voted also for the war. Mr. Calhoun—
i so often superior to party ties—is the
author of annexation, and voted for the
war. These two belong to the party in
power, and men might have looked for;
their allegiance. The two others are
hostile to the admini^ration: have they
been hostile to the war? Mr. Clay is
a private man —and therefore has not
been called on to take any official stand
in relation to this matft»r. But in De
cember, 1846, at the celebration of a
memorable event in American history, i
he was tootled at table, and made a re
ply, which was tku# reported in the
newspapers at the tune: Alt ho’ lead-’
ing a life of rctiregicM, i am not wholly
unobservant of the proceedings relating
to the condition, welfare, and prospects
of our country. And when I saw
around me to-night, Gen. Brooke, and
other old friends, I felt half inclined to
ask for some nook or comer in the army, i
in which I might serve to avenge the
wrongs done to my country. 1 have
thought that 1 might yet be able to cap
ture or slay a Mexican. I shall net be!
able to do so, however, this year, but
hope that success may still crown our
gallant arms, and the war terminate in
an honorable peace.” To add yet
more to the shame of America, this!
speech was delivered at the dinner of
the Sons of New England, on the 22d
December, met to celebrate the landing
of the forefathers of New England on
Plymouth rock. Poor men! in that
puritanic blood of theirs, was there no
tinge from the heart of the Pilgrims
Could they not, on that day, amid the
feasting, the wine, and the revelry,
amid the politicians and the generals,
and the ‘great applause,’ could they
not for a moment think of those out
casts of the world who came in the
name of Justice to found a State Oh, I
no. How could they think of that ?—i
There stood one of the foremost men of j
America, noping to ‘capture or slay a
Mexican!’ the son of some woman that;
never injured him—who might go down, j
heart-broken, and refusing to be com
forted, in sorrow to her grave. Alas—
could he have known it—vain man, how
soon is he doomed to weep at the in
scrutable ways of Providence, by
which his own son, the dear one, lies
slain in battle—not slain by a great
statesman, but by some vulgar bullet of
a nameless soldier, who fought for his
country, her altars and her homes,
w-hile the American volunteer fell inglo
rious and disgraced, a willing murder-,
er, in that war so treacherous and so
cruel. The father who had hoped to
‘slay a Mexican,’ shall find but sad'
consolation kissing the cold lips of his;
only son. Is Providence so ‘inscrut
able?’ He who would deal death upon
the sons of other men—shall he not ieel
it in his own home?
But the great champion of the north,
that man of giant intellect w hich dwarfs!
his thrqe competitors to littleness, him-!
self perhaps unequalled among living}
men in magnificence of understanding, I
he who has stood on Plymouth rock,
and his words which found a footing
there, have gone as Pilgrims to he fore
fathers of mighty deeds —at least in
humbler men! How broke the thunders
of that unequalled eloquence, which so
oft before had shaken every heart t
Did he thunder in the Senate, and
lighten over all the land, till wondering s
nations saw it from afar? Eet us look
at this. He had condemned annexation. I
It struck a blow at the influence of our
institutions.
Thank God, I did not slumber over that
danger.’ He had condemned the war;
it was, illegal,’ unconstitutional, un
just a war of pretexts, a Presiden
tial war;’ the President’s action was an
‘impeachable offence;’ the Mexicans
were weak, distracted, the prey of mili
tary tyrants. She has had nothing
that deserved to be called a govern
ment;’ and America is strong and uni
ted. In making war, the President had
very much nullified an important pro-,
vision of the constitution.’ Vet Mr.
Webster could say, at Philadelphia,:
Dec. ‘id, 1846:
Nevertheless, war i» upon us, ar
mies are in the field, navies are upon
the sea. We believe that the govern
ment ought immediately, in an honora
ble and satisfactory manner, to bring
the war to a conclusion, if possible. *j
B u t while the war lasts, [this j
unjust and unconstitutional war,] while,
soldiers are on the land and seamen on
the sea, upholding the flag of our coun
try, you feel, and I feel, and every
American feels, that they must he suc
cored and sustained. They
have done honor to the country to which
they belong. Where can we j
look for such steadiness, calmness, bra
very, and modesty, as in these volun
teers? The most distinguished inci
dents in the history of our country—of
the good conduct of the militia—of new
raised levies from am ngst the people,
is. perhaps, that of the battle of Bunker
Hill. I might go further,
and say, that at Bunker Hill the newly
raised levies and recruits sheltered
themselves behind some temporary de
fences, but at Monterey the volunteers
assailed a fortified city.
Nor was that all but the day before,
addre&aing a body of volunteers, mis
guided young men, who had probably
never considered the justice of the war,
nor asked whether they were to fight
for slavery or freedom —-he could cheer
and encourage them to fight in a war
which he declared illegal,’ and threat
ened to impeach the President for be
ginning could bid them go and uphold
the stars of their country’s banner!
Such was the conduct of that man on
whom nature has lavished so prodigally
her gifts —a kingly intellect and a heart
of noble make. In the Senate, what
did he to end the war? to iinpearh tin*
President? Nothing. So far a» oppo
sition to the war is concerned, no
in the wall could hare lain stiller or
more snug. All winter he sat in hi
seat busy—but with other things. The
instigators of the invasion passed by
and said, See, Webster is the friend of
the war. Had he not a son invested in
that enterprise?
Such is the conduct of the four most
eminent men of America. No oue ol
them opposes the war. Does any one
say a good word against it—he is sure
to eat that word the next day. The war
is thought 4 glorious* and called 1 patri
otic men are bid to fight the vrar of
their country, 4 right or wrong.' How
few remember that to fight on the wrong
side is to fight against the country! The
glory* of the enterprise, what does it
amount to? Why, if the United States
were to conquer all Mexico, viewed as
a military exploit, the glory of the deed
would be nothing. As well might the
Horse-guards of London claim glory,
because they had chased a crowd of
women from Billingsgate, and driven
them up Ludgate hill. VVc make no
doubt, that a private company for the
conquest of Mexico might be got up in
Boston, which iniwo years’ time would
conquer the whole of that country, and
keep it—perhaps for ever. The glory
which twenty millions of ‘Anglo Saxons’
are likely to get from conquering the
miserable population of Mexico, is glo
ry in the wrong column, even when
looked at with the unscrupulous eye of
a soldier. It seems surprising all men
cannot see that such a glory is only a
shame. One day the people must awa
ken. Justice will at last hold a stern
reckoning with the memories of our fa
mous men.
SELECTION St
THE COLORED CONVENTION.
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OX EDUCA
TION.
The committee appointed to make a
report on the state and wants of educa
ional privileges of the colored people, j
uid the educational advantages of col-!
jred persons in the United States, beg
io report, that they have endeavored to
consider the subject presented to them
:o report upon, with that care and
houghtfulness demanded by so impor
ant a subject. So wide reaching is
;he theme, of such deep import viewed
in every respect, that they feel fully
conscious of their inability to meet it
in the various important aspects in
which it presents itself; yet, conscious
af the importance of this subject, we
present the following suggestions:
1. In the first place, we would offer,;
is a very important item in the consid
eration of the question of education,
and the advantages connected there
with, the primeval duty of mental cul
!ure, as involved in the fact of posses
sing mental powers, which have been
bestowed upon us by the Almighty. It
is this consideration rightly viewed,!
which presents the magnitude of this!
subject, and the obligations arising!
from it, in the most positive manner.
The questionings and doubts expressed
ever and anon, as to the importance of
education, are here entirely stopped.
All dubitation here is destroyed. In
the very fact of being endowed with
intellectual powers, God clearly signi
fies that He intends that they shall be
appropriated and developed. There is
no waste, no superfluity in the econo
my of God, viewed in any department.
In the spheres of His government
and agency, no agent whatever exists
divorced from some special end and
mission. Everything that lives, breathes
aud exists as a sentiment of spiritual
existence, was made and designed for
growth; for developement; for expan
sion; not for inactivity; not “to lie in
dull abstraction and to rot,” did God
bestow upon us the enlarged capacity
of mind, and the noble powers of rea
son. The talent of intellect was given
to man to produce its proper fruits and
its legitimate results, the same as any
other talent he has bestowed upon us.
The responsibility which God has thrown
upon our moral being, and for which
He will call us to account, is as weighty
in this regard as any other for which
we will have to answer when called to
our proper account.
The duty of colored men’s attending,
then, with peculiar interest to the sub
ject of education, is not a doubtful or a
questionable one. It is a matter wound
up in our very existence. It is involved
in the very constitution given, us. The
duty and responsibility are coincident
with our very being.
2. But how should this education
among us be advanced? In what man
ner should it be promoted What
should be the spirit,—the controlling
animus, of our endeavors to further it,
and make it a common commodity?
YVe reply here, the education of col
ored men should not be dwarfed to the
cribbed, the narrow thing it now is.
The education of the mind of colored
youth, up to this time, has been shame
fully limited, contracted. In very deed,
it has not reached the dignity and the
elevation of education. It has been
rudiment a! notings, and superficial
glancing#. To comprehensiveness, it
■t has never yet made any pretensions;
to profundity, not the most distant ap
proach. la proof of this, we need but
mention the fact, that our schools are
of the commonest order among us
throughout the Union; while it is indeed
true, that in several places we see clear
1 n«ut evident signs of amendment.
I These facts should not longer be
permitted to be existent. We are
i bound to put forth efforts for enlarged
advantages. Whatever Mesas sad
availabilities for iiM-nlal culture «an
be obtained it i» our dutv to wei k and
secure them. The nhiration mu
pe«*|ik‘ should be carried «n in the most
earnest manner, with the Urgt *t ex
pectations, to the dc\elopement ol ail
the powers, and by the appropriation
of all the means that nature and schol
arship may afford. There should be no
stint, no contracted ness, nor prejudice
to hinder in this respect. Nor should
we fail to declare, that the old, stale
objections, iterated on one side and an
other, against classical learning, be
cause it is Greek or Homan, is little
and trifling. Whatever availabilities
are within our reach, arc providentially
afforded that we might use them; and,
consequently, neither the stars iu the
concave of the skies, nor the humble
floweret of the vale, nor the sand upon
the sea shore, arc to be despised <k
neglected, as means afl'oHed by the
Almighty for culture and devt lopeinent.
And so w hen a volume of science, or a
relic of ancient wisdom, or a fragment
of antique science or eruditi* n, i« pre
sented, it is a means afforded by Prov
idence for growth and intellectual ex
pansion. And no man has a right to
eschew any advantages afforded by
nature or Providence, which is adapted
to expand the intellect. And therefore,
it is that all the works of genius,
whether modern or ancient, whether
the fruit of English or of Homan, of
German or of Grecian minds, are to be
thankfully received by us, and skill
fully appropriated for the advancement
of our children and ourselves, in scien
tific, historical and classical learning.
3. The committee beg to present the
importance of education, from a con
sideration of its necessity to a full and
harmonious expression of the; man.—
Our people can never be a people—
the matured and grown men among us
can never be men in one quarter, while
there is nothing hut physical develop
ment, as nmong our brethren in bonds;
or w hile in another there is nothing hut
religious expansion; or while in a third
there may be nothing hut intellectual
growth. Man is neither animal exis
tence, nor a spiritual being, nor yet
an intellectual creature alone. Put
man is a compound being, a being ol
mind, soul and body. And that is not
a true development which pertains to
one of these alone, to the neglect of
the others; nor is he a full and com
plete man who has one-sided develop
ments. Now, this has been the fault
of the culture of the colored race
in this land. Our culture lias never
yet anywhere, or at any time, been a
full and harmonious one. Everywhere
there has been an unnatural and inor
dinate demand for physical exertion
and, consequently, everywhere therr
have been unnatural, inordinate phys
ical developments. The religious de
velopment among us has been but n
creed, sufficiently uninformed, lacking
the genial alloy of learning, scholar
ship, and the light of erudition. The
consequence has been, tnat while we
are a hardy and vigorous race in the
main; while we are a people accounted
religious, we are lacking intelligence,
scholarship and science: and, although,
as it respects two elements of our
being, we may compare with our fellow
creatures around us, yet, in respect to
the power, the force, and the authority
of learning, w e are vastly inferior.
Now, the history of the human spe
cies evinces the fact, that a degraded
people can never escape the degrada
tion, and reach a position of equality,
while there is a chance even for the
imputation of inferiority. The reason
ableness of such a charge is nothing to
the blank vision of blind prejudice.—
Argument will not sutfice. When ca
pacity, undoubted capacity, is exhib
ited, then, and then alone, will the
contempt and the outrages, arising
from actual or imagined inferiority,
depart, even as the pageantry and the
pomp of a dreamy revery is dispelled
by a human being’s contact with the
rigid aud severe duties of life.
4. It now only remains that your
committee should remark, that the
remedy for the ills and evils of our
present system of intellectual culture,
are not non-existent in our midst. It
is evident that it is not presented in
our common school system, which it
self is far from being complete and
fully furnished. We have a general
system of high-school instruction, w bieh
is able to meet the genera! want. In
a population of 400,000 people, we
have two high-schools; one at Cincin
nati, one at New York; neither of w hich
will compare fovorably with the ordi
nary high-schools established among
the whites. The colleges of New Eng
land and the West, which are opened
to us, do not meet the needs of our
people, because, first, there is no pre
vious opportunity offered for that early,
almost childish culture, which is abso
lutely necessary to the formation of
true high scholarship; and for which
white children possess superabundant
facilities. Second,—Our young men
who do prepare themselves for college,
are too poor to sustain themselves
through a collegiate course; and while
at college, are separated from their
people, inasmuch a* there is no point
of interest, or of contact, between the
colleges of our country and the colored
people of the Union; but rather the
utmost distance. Thirdly,— Such U
the force and urgency of caste, pene
trating every phase of life, social, ec
clesiastical, civil and domestic, that
college life has its peculiar restraints
to young men, thrown in the midst of
hundreds, who have a concealed repug
nance to colored men, and with few,
and perhaps none, to sympathize.
What, then, shall be done to remedy
the evils now entailed W'hat to »n
crease the number of students in the
land?
mI4I 'lit I. ittiali
IM K iimii
lIOI.K NO. IV.
I<> ihi*-qm-m n. arwh i. •»t
tit* (h i im nil n« i mtk’tar*i< t,
voiir niiiHnillrr hi g pr» sent .h> J*
!ow «i g resolution*:
KfMilir4, 1 hut the culture nf i)
intellect, the during (he nil liul 4iid
spiritual powers, the expansion and
development ol' the highest and rarest
gifts bestowed upon us by heaven, is
the grandest of all callings—the noblest
work of humanity; a work, when pro
secuted by any people, significant of
worth and character, and of a high
dest ny in the future.
K olved, That one of the best evi
dent. of advancing civilization among
a people, and, at the same time, of
iheir manliness and capability, is the
measure of solicitude exhibited m their
midst, for intellectual improvement.
Resolved, That the anxieties of col
ored men in this! respect have sv
lucked intensity, but have been repres
sed; and that the seeming indifference
in this respect has been but seeming,
and not replete with truthful indica
tions.
Resolved, That_ having reached a
position in civil and social condition,
w here no hindrance exists to the highc*t
aspirations, where no barriers ran pre
vent the most enlarged development of
desire, and its fullest expression, it be
comes us as men to vindicate our in
telligence and discrimination in this
respect, and to use exertions to appro
priate the best and fullest advantages
for intelligent growth and scientific at
tainments.
Resolved, That the day of equality,
heretofore, has been very considerably
retarded by the lack of men enpabie in
their own persons and their own ac
quirements, to refute the imputation of
inferiority, and to demonstrate the most
enlarged capacity.
Resolved, That the complete and
entire extirpation of caste is dependent
not alone upon the enunciation of prin
ciples, hut likewise on the living repre
sentation of the facts of mental Ability
in our midst, and the entrance of capa
ble colored men into every dc arfment
of activity; their manifestation of un
questioned power and energy in all the
spheres of the ught, research and acti
vity, where other men move and act.
Resolved, That it is the opinion of
this Convention, that the aim and en
deavor of colored men should hence
forth he to present an early generation
>f scholars, capable of trending tfm
platform of science, erudition and learn
ing, with as much conscious ability, a»
any men in the land.
Resolved, That in order to facilitate
this design and object, it ia cxpedUnt
that special means should be resort* d
to, whereby the expense, the strange
ness, the timidity and the restraint,
which now limit the number of collegi
ates from among us, may be neutralized
and effectually remedied.
Resolved, That the founding of a
collegiate institution, on the manual
abor plan, well endowed, placed in
mine central position, is calculated to
essen the restraint aiuHiuiidity, which
nust long exist, from the existence of
;aste in social and consequently college
ile; to eall forth larger numbers in the
pathway of learning, ami to rouse a
new spirit and temper among our peo
ple, wholly favorable to learning and
intellectual advance rnent.
Therefore, Resolved, That this Ton-
vent ion places before the colored peo
ple of the l nited States, the founding
ol a college, as its leading and most
prominent object.
Resolved, That a committee of twenty
five he appointed, with full powers to
devise a plan, and, if possible, to com
mence obtaining subscriptions and
funds, to designate proper and capable
persons to conduct such an institution,
to fix upon a site, and to make such
other arrangements as may seem to
them fit and proper, for the founding of
a collegiate institution, where the facil
ities of education of colored youth mav
be abundantly increased, but which
♦ball not be exclusive; and this com
nittee report to this convention at its
next annual session.
Alex. Cri mmeli.,
Jas. M’CT.ne Smith.
P. <i. Smith.
The following committee was ap
pointed by the Convention, in accord*
ance with the recommendation of the
report:
Troy Win. Rich.
Jllhnmj Win. H. Topp, Stephen
Myers, Moses Jackson.
A Vic York —Win. A. Tyson, Charles
L Reason, James M’Curie Smith,
[ieorge T. Downing, John J. ZuiiJc,
Albro Lyons, Samuel K. Corn.eh,
Charles R. Ray, Alexander Crumim 11,
Patrick 11. Reason, V. B. tdal,
Christopher Rush, Toward V. Clark.
Philadelphia —Joseph ’assey, W in.
Douglass, James J. Bias, Stephen
smith, Frederick A. 11 niton.
//irif jrd —J. W\ C. Pennington.
.Vcte Ifm n —Joseph Brow n, Amos
J. He man.
F rr«B fbr Liberator.
ED.Mt.M) QIIXCY.
My next duty is, to ackow ledge my
leep indebtedness to Mr. (Quincy, for
he very able and faithful manner in
shich he has edited the Liberator for
J*e last five months. Through Ins so
licitude for my complete restoi ation to
health, and hi« desire to afford me
ample tunc to effect this desirable ob
ject, 1 have had a genet©us respito
from editorial care and labor, since iny
return h> me—though most anxious to
relieve him at an earlier date, from
the burden he so cheerfully assumed.
This the third time he has enabled
me to respond, by my personal pres
ence, to the earnest cal! of anti-slavery
friends abroad. During my absence
on a Dor through Western New Vork,
in the fall of 1813, an a protracted ni
nes« which was the consequence of my
u.(remitted labors at that time—and
ah while 1 was absent on an anti-sla
very iniishn to England last year —it
a) I tio.l to his recent valuable eervices
—he geaerou ly volunteered to occup)
th: editorial chair of the Liberator
without asking, expecting or receiving
a farthing, by way of pecuniary com
p ;uiti>n, for an amount of labor tha
ouid n )t have been secured, i:i the or
di lary course of InuiaoM, f>r severa
h t.idreis of dollars, Had it fc>t bee:
1 >t tttis rare devotion to tue caoae of ea
alivcd humanity, on his part, I couh
n H nave g me oil my mission to Eag
la id, Six f ork, au i Ohio; for I hat
n»t the mians to lure a.iy on: to fii
m/ va :a i? post. For whatever beoesit
tlureore, that may have a::rued t
the anti-slavery cause in consequence
of th ‘ie missions, the credit is largely
due to h; n.
i'eruapi there is no.- one—-I will not
except my sell?—«o virulently hated nod
h> vulgarly an tiled by the betrayers ol
the auTi-slavery* enterprise, a* Edmund
Quia Tney perceive in him the
in ».st (h »r>ugh detestation of knavery—
a i absolute regard for interity of char
a tier—a sagacity, amounting to intu
iti>n, in the detection of hypocrisy and
can*—a spirit that can neither be flat
tered n »r intimidated into a compromise
ol principle—-an ability and willingnesi
to unmask imposture, such as fear it
tdiisi agg possess—agd a sublimx eleva
lion of soul above that fear, ay, am
that favor of man, which brinreth i
snare,” Hence their torment at hii
presence. Hiw they writhe aid how
und.*r the well-merited strokes inflictei
wall his satirical lash!—Not one of then
d oes he a'.l ow to go unvvliipt of jus
tice.” No marvt-l that they resort V
th: vocabulary of Billingsgate to expres
their contempt and hatred of him. N
higher honor could he covet, than thi
outpou.iag of their malignity. Poor
10 w-mm led traducers! conscious of theii
own baseness, and unable to cope wit!
him in the lield of inoral integrity, thei
can only rail at him as one who is an
“aristocra!’\!) by birth, and who ought
to be scouted because h is the son ol
so highly hoaired u man a* Josiali
Quincy, the lulu President of Ilarvarc
University.
Among the many individuals wh
have esp »u*sed the cause of the de
spised black man in this country, then
is u> one, to my knowledge, who ha:
given evidence of greater moral emir
ugc aid disinterestedness—greater ti
d.lity and devotion—than Kdmum
Qiixcy. Considering lih education
t-i ally, prospects, the circle in which h<
ni iveJ, the piwerful con-?ervaitv-e iniln
caces with which he was surrounded
the strong inducements ho had to slant
ul j >i from companionship with the til
trais s ol the d ly, and to give uulim
iied indulgence to lim natural taste foi
literary pursuits, no man has sacri/icec
ui >re i.i tiic cuuse, or s.'i iwn in »ro rea
iuJupcnduuco, or displayed greater he
roism of soul, than him self. It is under
such circumstances that prodigies arc
uulj— uu.l he is conspicuously of that
cl i-s. Pew, very lew, can comprehend
11 ><v dillicult it must liavo been tor one,
tlius situated, openly to take his place
by the side of those who were ever,
wnere lira ided as fanatics and incen
diaries—;o g down, with a rnaligaan
pu die eye taste nod upon him, to t!u
in vest depth of hu na i degradation, ii
his sympathy for the imoruted slave—
t> f»rsn.se ‘‘father and mither, and
broth :r and sister,” a id peril “houses
and »aaJs” in prospect, for the sake ol
a t>) impoverished to offer the
aiigutest c unpensation, and too fcehlv
befriended t make the advocacy of their
rignts even a matter of decency.
Mr. Quincy was not among the earliest
friends of the anti-slavery cause; neither
d;d lie come in at the eleventh hour; for
that hour has at last conic, though
every man who shall faithfully labor
th: remainder of the day shall be en
titled to his penny. It was in the very
darkest hour of the cause, when the
mad less of monocracy had become
contagious all over the land, and all
parties and sects were thirsting, as it
were for the blood of the abolitionists;
whoa ft iston, relined, enlightened, be
nevolent Boston, was forever disgraced
in history, by the lawless conduct of
live thousand gentlemen of property
and standing,” on which it is not neces
sary hero to dilate; it was at such a
crisis, the mind of Mr. Quincy was
anused t »the investigation of the sub
ject of slavery and the principles of the
abolitionists. Unm »ved by popular
clamor, uninfluenced by family ties,
u.Horrified by the certainty of losing
“caste, having satisfied his judgment
and conscience in the premises, he
boldly avowed himself to he an aboli
tionist of the most ultra” stamp, the
determined foe of slavery under all
‘circumstances, the glad associate of
men who were without reputation, for
bleeding humanity's sake! It was truly
a sublime act; a glorious achievement.
Since th it hour, the anti-slavery cause
has'pas led through many vicissitudes
had many extraordinary phases; been
betrayed on the light and on the left
lost many of its earliest adherents,
through shameful apostacy; but at no
ti.no lias Mr. Quincy faltered i:i his
c >ur ;c, or swerved one hair's-breadth
from tin siraight line of uncompromi
sing abolitionism. His integrity is
wuh >ut spot or blemish; his courage
eqail t any emergency; his vigilance
in the dete nt m of danger to the cause,
through th? <-awardice of some, and
the time-serving spirit of others, sleep
less aid unwearied; ins readiness to
metet the big ie»t re luiromciits of auti
aiavery duty, unsurpassed.
If Mr. Qumcy hud cherished any
reg irJ for his g lod name and tame,”
in a popular sense, most certainly he
would not have thus identified hiinselt
with sect every where spoken
against.” If he had had any disposi
ti mi to espouse the side of reapecta
l»i it p,(the term is here used compar
atively.) he w mid have üband »ned the
Aincnaan Anti-Slavery Society in ita
great extremity, in the memorable year
’JO. in company with James ti. ftirnoy,
Arthur* and Ixrwis Tappan, and nearly
all that had my wealth or resjmeta
bihty,” left, and made himself conspi
cuous a n Ml; t!te titled personages,
b »th “d*vm and human, who organ
ized the jiompous American mvt
Fjreir>t Anti-Slavery Society.” But
he cb iiC rather to fuller alilictton with
the “comftftn pqdfce,” the trtre friends
of the *!s*♦, whe remained flrit hful in
I their adherence to the Srjcii, than te
enpy the honors which such an apm
i taev would surelyhave Kfwet] ts him.
at iealt “for a Hesaou.” |-J t
Again. The frrmatiow of thrrfon
Re ii ■stance Socieiy aim >ai eulirely re
tnaved the curie fro;n the Anti-Slavery
movement. It excited universal cott
i tempt, and was availed by every
of ridicule. For one to be Garri-
I soiian* Aholitioaiit, was bad enough;
bul to be a n >n-resi*tant was altogcthei
intolerable. Mr. Quincy might have
1 avoid'd the odium of being a membei
of the N m-Rewatance Society; hi*
i anti-slavery obligations did not reqnitf
i this new martyrdom; lie could at teas*
have u»«n a non-committal course ir
regard to it. Moreover, he was a law
ye« —yes, and also a justice of the
f peace; and non-resistance would strif
!hi n of his profession and his office!—
Hew, then, did he behave? Did h<
think of preferment, station, popularity
and turn away from a candid examine
t f>n the principles and doctrines o
the Non-Resistance Society? No.—
Startling as was the enunciation of thbs<
principles, and novel as was the proefa
mation of those doctrines, he dared t<
I grapple with them, and to give them s
severe analysis. It was not hastily tha
he gave in his adhesion to them (fo
I I there is nothing impulsive m his char
i j acter) as based upon everlasting truth
i tHfe dictates of unsophisticated reason
1 1 the instincts of humanity, absolute dis
i interested ness of spirit, godlike magna
a nimity, and that love which is the fu!
I filling of the law,** because it worksn«
1 j ill even to the most crininal of wrong
i doers, —the most bitter of enemies!—
But as soon as his judgment was con
minced, he “conferred not with flesl
and blood,” but made himself one wit!
j the despised non-resistants—and mos
ably, as the principal editor of Th<
Non-Resistant,” did he vindicate th<
position and object of the Society.
i But did he carry out his principles
He was a lawyer—did he abandon tin
i profession? Yes. He was a justiceo
the peace—did he give up his commis
i sion? Yes. In his letter to Gov. Ev
crett, Sept. 2*l, 18$9, returning tha
I commission, be nobly said:
“I am induced to take this courst
for many reasons, of which it will b<
sufficient to assign the following:
cannot c mscientiously discharge thi
s duties imposed by the office of a con
"I servator oi the public peace, which ne
cessarily involve the assumption of th<
I l ight on the part of the community, del
egated to me, of taking human lite
J j which assumption, whether made by in
dividuals or nations, I believe to be i
sin against God. Again, I wisbbythii
liact to absolve myself From the guilt
-1 incurred by taking the oath of alle
giauce to the Anti-Christian Constitu
ti >n of this State and of the L r nite<
I States, at the time I accepted the office
I i hough 1 hold an oath of allegiance tc
any government, founded on the riglu
ot taking lile at its discretion, to be
j absolutely void ab iui/io, being con
trary to tho allegiance due, and due
only, to the Most High, still I cannoi
j feel myself discharged from the sin o
I rebellion against the (sovernment o
j God, without a public abjuratiou of al
allegiance under which I may have lai<
II myself to any existing human Govern
meat. 1 do, therefore, in the prcsenct
i of Almighty God, and before you, ai
Chief Magistrate of this Common
I wealth, hereby abjure and renounce al
allegiance which I may at any time
have acknowledged myself to owe tc
any government of man’s institution.—
I And I call upon Him and you to wit
ness that I have put away from inysell
this iniquity for ever!”
Is such a man to be sneered at as
a istocratic,” either in aim or char
acter? Yes—by those who are in
i capable of doing a noble act, or appre
ciating a sublime example—and by no
others.
The name of Quincy is an honored
one in the history of the old Bay State,
from an early period; but among all
who have borne tho name, none de
serves to be held in more grateful re
membrance by posterity than that of
Edmund Quincy.
EMERSON IN ENGLAND.
K. W. Emerson-, Esq., addressed tha
mating amidst much much applause, lie
concluded his speech as follows:
I was brought up from my childhood in
the belief tint this British island, from which
iny forefathers came, was not a lotus garden;
was not a paradise of serene skies and roses,
and incrrim :nl, ail the year round; no, but a
cold, foggy, mournful country, bearing no
t'.uit well in the open air. but robust meu and
virtuous women; atul those, too, of a certain
wonderful fibre and endurance; a certain peo
ple whose good qualities and virtues were not
very swift to show themselves, and never
camo out till they quarreled, i was told, to
use a country phrase of oure, that tliey did
not strike twelve the first time. Good lovers
tliey were, and good listers they were; and
you could not know much of them until you
had svu them in action. In their prosperity,
it was said, they wore apt to be a little mood v
and dumpish; but in adversity they were
grand. 1 »sk, you, sir. did not the wise
ancients hold in less esteem that bark which
was departing from port with all her colors
flying, than that ship which was coming hack
with battered sides and torn canvass, but bad
ridden out the storm? Aud so, sir, I feel
Inwards this aged England, when I see it in
tbs pow'ssion of trophies and honors, and
also t:i th* infirmities which an gathering
round her. conriuttcd irretrievably as she is
to many ancient customs,notsuddenly changed;
pressed as she n» b» the transitkhis of' trade,
aud mode of inamiiiiclurc*, and csompcting
populations. W ith ail these pressing upon
ii -r, m-t dispirited, not weak, bm strong, verv
well r *m?mb-ring that she has seen many
hard days b:*f»re; nay, with a belief that she
can *3B with her old eye* a fifth* bryond those
cohl aud discouraging tuaes—ledmg a little'
t vigor, and a puW like a ca.aiou—when
1 are, sir —w hen I see that m her old age she!
,Ujt d ere pul, but is still young, still folicv
lu?; dhfing hi believe in her power of
en«hr-u»«. an<r x anß J o(lt f Hail.
m«ih *r ot nation** m ,il*ey of her« -s, all hail! 1
wu I a vtro;ig ana sail equal to th* turn*, «rith{
spirit u* wtmvu .udswiu to dm;
at lha waw require, and thereby huspita-
I UXH, only to find
th. truth in him. and a true home to bey own 1
g.n-Mos and thoughtful chibfr-o. Bobeui
air; long lie it so, from age to ago but if bvl
courage fail before Die momentary calamm**
id UV* commerce, I wdl r.Vum u> Mwr.rhu-,
*-4* aad ta my iutk* ludi ut stnum, and savl
to my Aneriaia (Heads, The old race is *ll
rmiv*, and if hope and elasticity are to be’
fjtmd, they must be on the ranges of th* AJ-I
hgbaiirw, or aowhetc.
r m m sta^,
lt, ISIS, y
We war w%m Mexico.
From aught that appears in the present
f poattioa and movements of the executive ami
cabinet—the proceedings of either branch ot
the national Congress.—the several State
Legislatures, Nooh and South—the spirit st
Uu public pleas—the coortocl of leading men,
people of the United States at large, slight
I hope can rationally be predicated of a very
speedy termination of tha present disgraceful,
cruel, and iniquitous war with our sister re
public. Mexico seems a doomed victim to
Anglo Saxon cupidity aad love of demimoo.
Tha dele manat kmi of our elavefceWiog Presi
dent to prosecute the war, and the probability
i of h» oaceess in wringing torn thw peepfe
men and money to carrf Hon, b made evident,
rather than doubtful, by the puny opposition
f arrayed against him. No politician of any
'j con side table distinction or eminence, see mi
willing to hazard his popularity with hit party,
or stem the fierce current of executive influ
t ence, by an open aad unqualified disapprove
t tion of the war. None seem witting to tak<
r their stand for peace at all risks; and all seen
j willing that the war should be earned on, it
some form or oilier. If any oppose the Prcsi
dent’s demands, it b not because they hau
the. war, hut for want of information as to th<
t
j aims and objects of the war. The boldest
declaration oa this point b that of Hon. Johr
j P. Hale, which b to the effort that he will no)
_' vote a single dollar to the Presideat lor carry
ing on the war, until he shall be fully iuforatec
i j of the purposes and objects of the war. Mr
i Hale knows, as well as the President can io-
II form him, for what the war is waged; and ye)
he accompanies his decldhftion with that pro
dent proviso. This shows how deep seatet
s and strongly bulwarked is the evil agains)
which wc contend. The Iwldest dare noi
j. fully grapple with it.
Meanwhile, tha plot thickeasthe evi]
_ spreads. Large demands are made on the
t national treasury, (to wit: the poor man'i
pockets.) Eloquent and patriotic speeches
i arc made in the Senate, House of Represen
i tatives aud State Assemblies: Whig as well
I i as Democratic governors stand stoutly up foi
i the war: experienced and hoary-headed states
men tax their declining strength and ingenuity
in devising waysaud means for advancing the
j infernal work: recruiting sergeants and corpo
rals perambulate the laud in search of victim*
j for'tho sword and food for powder. Whercvei
t there is a sink of iniquity, or a den of pollu
i* tion, these buzzards may be found in search
of their fJtliy prey. They dive into the rum
shop, and gambling house, aud other sinks toe
infamous to name, with swine-like avidity, in
I pursuit of degraded men to vindicate the in
sulted honor of our Christian country. Mili
-1 tarv chieftains and heros multiply, and tower
ing high above the level of common men, are
glorified, if not deified, by the people. The
I whole nation seems to wonder after these
[bloody] beasts.” Grasping ambition, tyran
f nic usurpation, atrocious aggression, cruel
f and haughty pride; spread, and jjervade the
1 land. The curse is upon us. The plague it
I abroad. No part of the country can claim
entire exemption from its evils. They may
be soon as well in the State of New York, at
in South Carolina on the Penolweot, as on
II the Sabine. The people appear to be com
pletely in the hands of office seekers, dema
gogues, and political gamblers. Within the
bewiilleriug meshes of their political nets,
they are worried, confused, and confounded,
so that a general outcry is heard—“ Vigorous
prosecution of the war!”—“ Mexico must be
humbled!”—“ Conquer a peace!”—“ Indem
j nity!”—■“ War forced upon us!”—“ National
honor!”— The whole of Mexico Our
j destiny! This continent! Anglo
Saxon blood More territory Free
institutions!”—“ Our country!” till it seems
indeed that justice has fled to brutish beasts,
and men have lost their reason.” The taste
of human blood and Use smell of powder seem
to have extinguished the senses, seared the
i conscience, and subverted the reason of the
people to a degree that may well induce the
gloomy apprehension that our nation has fully
entered on her downward career, and yielded
herself up to the revolting idea of battle and
blood. Fire and sword,” are aow the
choice of our young republic. The loss of
thousands of her own men, and the slaughter
of tens of thousands of the sons and daugh
ters of Mexico, have rather given edge than
duloess to our appetite for fiery conflict and
plunder. The civilization of the age, the
voiee of the world, the sacredness of human
life, the tremendous expense, the dangers,
hardships, and the deep disgrace which must I
forever attach to our inhuman course, seem
to oppose uo availing check to the mad spirit
of proud ambition, blood, and carnage, let
loose in the land.
We have no preference for parties, regard- j
ing this slaveholding crusade. The one is as
bad as the other. The friends of peaee have i
nothing to hope from either. The Democrats
claim the credit of commencing, and the
Whigs monopolize the glory of voting aup
plies and carrying on the war; branding the
war as dishonorably commenced, yet boldly I
persisting in pressing it on. If we have any!
preference of twe such parties, that prefer- j
ence inclines to ihe one whose practice, though j
wicked, most accords with its professions.
Wc know w here to find tho so called Demo
crats. They are the accustomed ponderer**
to slaveholder*: nothing is either too mean, 1
too dirty, or infamous for them, when com
manded by the merciless min stealers of our 1
country. No one expects any thing honorable
or decent from that party, touching human j
rights. They annexed Texas under the plea j
of extending the area of freedom. They,
elected James K. Polk, the slaveholder, as i
the friend of freedom; and they have backed
him up to his Presidential falsehoods. They I
have used their utmost endeavors is crash the j
right of speech, abridge the right of petition,
and to perpetuate the enslavement of the col
ored people of this country. But we do not
intend to go into any examination of parties
just now. That we shall hare frequent op
portunities of doing hereafter. We wish
merely to give our readers a gensval portrait i
of the present aspect of oar country is regard
to the Mexican war, its design** ssd its re- j
suits, as tficy have thus fkr tresMfired. j
Of the settl'd determinatwa to prosecute
xmdu; hia«*aa.b»
hav* allied fouaifeun; lU *h«*
teW i» tft»t «mm ?W»d
MMlt I their lrmly ia
th* hearts of t^»pooi>lf, and to I
hraft* for the conflict. AH “to* te
deMi all suienag despised; all honor es
eiM««4; «Q dried «p; aai all tte boltoi
prompting! of the soul bluo Usd, silenced
and repudiated, while all the furies of brfl are
rorofced to gm4r w MU Ha*,~-oai
awn hilling marhimj, —near ia and eat ol
iiiee of head aad heart, principles and maxims,
counsels and warning!, which ooce commanded
reepect, and neureft aiuot'i twitl
ill now he aeonted; acr.se of decency muat bt
utterly drowsed: age nor aez must exercise
nay humaiming effoct upon our gallant sol
dicis, or restrain their aataaic designs. 11m
fftoans of slaughtered men, the screams pi
•iolaied women, and the eriea of orphan chil
dren, must bring no throb of pity from oai
national heart, but must rather terse as mash
to inspire eur gallant troops to deeds of alro
eioua cruelty, lust, and blood. The work it
thus hid out, commenced, and ia to be con
tinned. Where it will end is known only u
the Great Ruler of the U Ol terse; but when
the responsibility rests, and upon whom tetri
button will hi), is sore and certain.
In watching the efects of the war spirit
prominent amodg Will he seen, not onli
the subversion of the great principles of Chris
tian morality, hot the most horrid blasphemy
While traveling from Rochester to Victor
a few days ago, we listened to a eoavcraarioi
bet wees two perms of apparent ge utility am
intelligence, on the subject of the Unite*
States’ war against Mexico. A wide differ
enee of opinion appeared between them; th
one contending for the rightfulness of th<
war, and the other against it. The main &r
gument in favor of the war was the meanness
and wickedness of the Mexican people; and
to cap the climax, he gave it as his solemi
conviction, that the hand of the Lord was in tin
wort! that the cup of Mexican iniquity wa
full; and that God was now making use o
the Anglo Saxon race as a rod to ehastiw
them! The effect of this religious outhurs
was to stun his opponent into silence: hi
seemed speechless; the ground was too higl
and holy for him; be did not dare reply to it
and thus the conversation ended. When me;
charge their sins upon God, argument is idle
rebuke alone is needful; and the poor man
lacking the moral courage to do this, sa
silent.
Here, then, we have religion coupled wit
I our murderous desigr.s. We are, in th
hands of the great God, a red to chastise thi
rebellious people! What say our evangeli
cal clergy to this hlasj hemy? That clerg
seem as silent as the grave; and their silenc
jis the greatest sanction of the crime. The
have seen the blood of the innocent poure
out like water, and are dumb; they have see
the truth trampled in the dust—right sough
by pursuing the wrong—peace sought b
prosecuting the sought by dl;
honorable means, —and have not raised
whisper against it: they float down with th
multitude in the filthy current of crime, an
are hand in hand with the guilty. Had th
pulpit been faithful, we might have bee
saved from this withering curse. We aomi
times fear, that now our case as a nation i
hopeless. May God grant otherwise Ou
nation seems resolved to rush on in he
wicked career, though the road be ditche
with human blood, and paved with huma
skulls. Well, be it so. But, humble as w
arc, and unavailing as our voice may be, w
wish to warn our fellow countrymen, lha
they may follow the course which they hav
marked out for themselves; no, barrier may b
sufficient to obstruct them they may accora
plish all they desire Mexico may fall be for
them; she may be conquered and subdued
her government may be annihilated—be
name among the great sisterhood of nation
blotted out; her separate existence annihilated
her righto and powers usurped; her peoph
put under the iron arm of a military despot
ism, and reduced to a condition little
than that endured by the Saxons when vau
quished by their Norman invaders; but, s<
sure as there is a God of justice, we shall no
ge unpunished; the penalty is certain; w<
cannot escape; s terrible retribution await:
us. We beseech our countrymen to leave ol
this horrid conflict, abandon their murderoui
plans, and forsake the way of Mood. Perad
venture our country may yet be saved. Lei
the press, the pulpit, the ehurch, the peoph
at large, unite at ones; and let petitions flooc
the halls of Congress by the million, asking
for the instant recall of our forces form Mexico
This may not save us, but it is our onh
hope.
IT? Oa another column of tbit week’s
number will be.found a well-deserved, well
timed, and eloquent tribute from the pen of
William Lloyd Garrison, to the worth of that
fearless champion and fearless writer in the
cause of human freedom, Edmund Quincy.
We most heartily unite in this grateful com
mendation. Regarding him as one of the
best in our ranks, we think him the least ap
preciated by the rest of Abolitionists. Com
ing from the ranks of the favored few in our
land, it is not remarkable that be should be
regarded with a little ooolaeeo, by the rank
and file of our noble army, made up as they
are of humble men end women, strangers to
his habits and mode of life. Mr. Quincy was
one of the first abolitionists in this country, by
whom we were kindly welcomed, and taught
to furget our despised complexion. We were
newly from the slave plantation, rude in our
manners, rough m our appearance, and awk
ward in our movements, and altogether mtae
rustomed to refined and educated society; and
when to invite a colored naan hts the hum
blest abode of white persons, required great
moral courage, he did not hesitate to welcome
us to his home and hosphahty—showing him
self more of man and less an aristocrat, than
the heartless herd who are now calling him
this meaningless name, to destroy his asu
dnvery influence.
E7* The Editor of the Bottom C%rtm*fpe
mjm, that if there’s a hors hi this lower
world, it ia a pulpit devoted exclusively to a
religion which has nothing to do with any
earthly thing,” Oh, the degeneracy of
the American Presa! What will dm sacri
irghma heretic say aext T
rSA.IAUA’S BIKTUkUATi
It wifi bo highly fnuifjrin|r to m friends
la all parts of the world, m observe to the pro
ceedings of this unul festival, published oo
our third pagt, that the vulgar asd senseless i
prejudice against colored persons, so pur* a-
leal in oar land, waa utterly repudiated by the
gentlemen of the press in due city, on the oe* j
caawn of this anniversary. It is indeed, a moat
hopeful evidence of the progress of free prm
-1 triples, when the most intelligent acd re
japeetaMa cniaras of all political parties, do
tpimig popular prejudice, cordially welcomed
equal and brotherly terns with themselves.
Prejudice against color cannot long exist.
We commend the fact to the New York Sun
day Dispatch, New York Express, Bennett's
Herald, and the Democratic Review. We
would also call the attention of the American
j Colouantioa Society, and all religious organi
xatkms, which keep up a distinction in their
churches on account of color, but we will not
dwell. The fact speaks for itself.—■
Tb earning yet for s’ that.
Wtou mma to an the world o’er
Shall brother be for s* ihet.’V
AMERICAN PREJUDICE.
It is far from our purpose, in managing the
editorial department of the Nceth Star, to
assail the eye* of our readers, especially our
trans-Atlantic readers, with all the low black
guardisms and vile abuse w hich the American
press may see fit to lavish upon us. We wish
to keep our columns as free as possible from
the course vulgarity and malignant peraon
i alities which distinguish a very large, and,
we are sorry to say, influential portion, of the
American press. But our readers will par
don the departure from this rule, by the pub
lication of the following article from the De
mocratic Review for January, as it comes
from a source which may be said to represent
the respectability and refinement uf the Dem
ocratic party, as well as the public opinion of
our country at large
The Canard steamer line from Boston to
Liverpool, are coming hereafter to Mew York,
as the proprietors are alarmed at the rivalry so
suddenly ewdeuced by the appearance oi Ute
American line of steamers truin N T ew York,
via Southampton, to Bremen. So far, these
trans-Atlantic steamers have been wholly sup
ported by American patronage, which it once
withdrawn, will throw them probably ou their
beam-ends. And this is a result likely to
occur from present symptoms. If the Aiuen
can line prove itself to be equal in safety ai d
s|>ee(l —and who can doubt that American
skill is not equal to British any day, on sea or
[land? it is beyond all question certain, that
1 every true-hearted American will cheerfully
lend every encouragement to his country
enterprise. There is another reason, stronger
'still, why we should give a rebuke to thu
English Cunard line, which, in the day of its
ascendancy, dared to venture upon a brutal
display of hostility to American prejudices,
I that should be remembered now.
“Only last year, that black vagabond
Douglass, who spent his time in England
propagating his filthy lies against the 1 mtet
Stales, which were greedily swallowed bs
English hypocrites and fools, returned to thu
country in the Cambria, under the espccia
protection of Capt. Judkins, who first insislec
that this offensive negro should sit at table
with American gentlemen and, failing it
this, he magnanimously gave up to his odor
ous protege his own bed and state room. Tht
year before that, Capt. Judkins, whose black
propensities are strong in the ascendant, au
j thorised this self-same negro to hold forth or
his deck against the cruelty and infamy oi
j lying America, that talked of liberty in 'om
breath, and refused to live cheek by jowl
j with their nigger brethren in the next. Or
remonstrances being being temperately made
by some American gentlemen, this msoleni
cub of the sea, Capt. Judkins, threatened U
put them in irons Ought we not to get hirr
j up a public dtnner, and a cold bath to boot
J on his advent in New York This suggestion
we learn, is under meditation.
j Here we liave it. Capt. Judkins dared It
j display hostility to American prejudices; am
therefore this Review—this great defender o!
democratic liberty, gently recommends thai
captain Judkins be thrown in the dock, on his
arrival at New York. We own that we liavs
said some hard things against America, ami
that we have helped to expose the bittei
spirit of persecution to which colored person!
are subjected throughout this country; but
we are confident that we have said nothing
half so well calculated to drsgrace our nation
in the eyes of the civilized world, as thb
same article in the Democratic Review. Had
the New York Express, Sun, or Herald, used
the language above, we should not have taken
any notice of it; their pro-slavery malice
being widely known and well understood;
and being also understood to belong to that
bloodhound class of American newspapers,
whose business it is to hunt negroes for their
Southern masters. From such as these we
might well expect such things, but not from
the Democratic Review. This periodical has
lor some time been regarded as a decent and
respectable print; and it is therefore some
what surprising to find it dealing in course and
vulgar abuse, and coolly counselling the
citizens of New York to Lynch Capt. Jud
kins. “Give him a cold bath," —that is,
Shove him into the dock. We recommend
the idea to Punch. He might give us a fine
picture of Jooathan in the act of giving Capt.
Judkins a cold bath.
There are one or two falsehoods in the
article above. Though of no great import
ance, we may as well correct them at once.
Capt. Judkins never invited, or insisted id
our sitting at the table with white A unt
ie an Gentle*ex;” nor did be threaten to
put the slaveholders in irons, tiU these
American Gentlemen got up a mob which
might have endangered the lives ot these
self-same gentlemen. But we suppose tills
democratic defender of mobs, w ho would
throw Capt. Judkins overboard, and who
recommends the deed, will be as ready to
defend the mob or mutiny at sea, as he is to
recommend Lynch law in New York. “This
is a great country
We give our readers another specimen of
American skin-deep aristocracy; and pledge
oumelvee that we shall not often their
ayes with such loathsome stuff
Frederick Douglass, the nigger pet of the
British Aboliiwuisf, has fixed upon Rochester
ss the place in which to establish sa abolition
paper, fee which the fends have been fur
nished m England, for the express and impu
dently avowed object of destroying the «oo
»rituuoo and ,Unmo of the United States.
We beard this saucy nigger, in the Broadway
Tabernacle, boast of his hatted to this govern
ment sad its institauooft, and boost of the
eneottrageraesi he received os the other side
uf the Atlaaue. Detroit and Cleveland hove
been spates of as the plaee selected by this
British mnkußry, for the seenc of his opera
now; but bare m» wars m urn pro-
Ipnctua Of the North Staf/ l*W published
a Rochester.
44 We do aot know wba! the worthy eiti
lena of Rodteater will do in «h» case—or
whether they will aot think it beardJi them to
(kfMiythhig• law, cunaiderod apart from
bio wlute hoot era un both aakw of the Atltn-
Uc.arf little importance' si smart, unprin
cipled mulat o. Still, the establishnu'ist and
apparent rapport of his paper thcr**, will be a
serious detriment to the place; and aa a moder
ate sum of money would, doubtless, induce
Douglass to go to Toronto or Kingston, iu
Canada, where he will be much more at
home, the Rochester people will do well to
buy him off.'*— Sutuh y Ihspeif k.
EF The following parting won!*, of our
faithful friend and brother Del any, to the rea
ders of the A fysi~ry, will be read by the Pa
trons of the North Stab, with emotions of
pleasure. We hope, soon, to lay before our
readers, editorial correspondence from our ab
sent coadjutor.
This number rods the Fourth Volume, and
with it, our connexion as Editor of the Mys~
trry. For upwards of four years the paper
has been afloat upon tin: breeze, during which
time, excepting three months, (when it was
edited by the Committee) we have stood at
the helm of our steady little barque, steering
right onward for the cimtinent of Liberty and
Equality. If ever we have touched success
fully any of her ports, we leave those who
have been the constant observers of our move
ments to decide.
We commenced the enterprise alone, on
the 30th of August, 1843, and as many know,
after nine months, transferred over to a Com
mittee, the proprietorship. The position that
we assumed, was to claim for our oppressed
fellow countrymen both bond and free, every
right and privilege belonging to man, holding
as an indispensible prerequisite, that whatev
er is necessary for the elevation of the whites,
is necessary for the colored. In order the
more fully to illustrate tlie truthfulness of this
i position, wc had frequently to touch subjects
that at o:.ce affected the pride and interests ot
our brethren, who often in consequence, look
ed upon us more as an injurer than a friend.
Put our determination being perseverance,
and our course onward,’we had not long been
toiling with the popular tide and current of
our people's errors, until the young people
particularly of the West, were aroused to a
quickening sense of their condition, and in
many cases inexcusable positions in society,
and wo at o.ie timi, had the asto.iishnv.mt. as
j well as the pleasure of seeing eleven papers
spring up iu different parts of the country, all
of which joined issue with us, advocating the
very same doctrines, or 'commending oui
I course. Among the number were, the Dis
franchised American, Colored Citizen, Palla
dium of Liberty, Clarksonian, Herald, (Har
j risburg, Pa.) Advocate, (N. Y. city,) Eleva
tor, &c
In addition to which in every direction, the)
launched forth upon the mental ocean natural
ly enough concluding, that if we, an inexperi
enced adventurer, were capable of taking tin
helm and striking with certainty many of tlx
ports of importance to us as a people, tin
same results might as probably follow like ef
forts on their own part. And we can safely
say, in tn» period of our modern existence, war
the talents of the colored people, male and fe
male, developed to such an extent as since the
existence of our paper and now, those who
before, had not tho confidence in theutslvcs,
and would scarce venture a thought, look upon
such efforts, as a matter of course.
There were quite too many papers accord
ing to our number and circnmstanscs, but it
only served to show what an interest from the
course pursued, was excited in our present
condition.
We have ever since, gone on steadily and
stealthily, until the present dale, fulfilling to
the letter our promise as editor, and assisting
the Publishers in the fulfillment of theirs;
though as we have frequently noticed, gave
our services gratuitously to the cause, as well
as a portion of our private means, earned by
our daily business; but all our above referred
I to coteinporaries have long since ceased to ex
ist, with some others of a later period.
We admit, that we have fallen far short of
what might have been effected in the same
lime; the paper frequently appearing quite cold
and spiritless, but this could not be avoided, as
we had our daily labor to perform to earn our
bread.
The Mystery is still afloat, with the solemn
promise of the Publishers, to keep her tiding
on the broad waters of destiny, doing battle
in the great struggle for liberty and right, ele
vation and equality, God and humanity, as ui
days bygone.
The Publishing Committee with and for
whom we have labored for years, faithful to
their trust, and prompt to a man have done
I much, for which we feel proud to have i» in
power to say, arc well w orthy of their
task, andean still do more, and from our very
heart, as our successors in the editorial career,
we commend them to tlie readers of the Mys
tery.
As to the efficacy and merit of our own ef
forts, we leave the public to determine, as we
have no other endorser.
It becomes necessary that we should retire
from our present position not that we are a
traitor to the cause of Humanity, but (turn
this to w hat we hope, a nwe useful and pro
ductive port of the moral vineyard. We leave
the Mystery for a union with the far famed
and world renowned Frederick Doicla**, as
a co-laborer in the cause of our oppressed
brethren, by the publication of a large and ca
pacious paper, the Norm Star, in Rochester, j
N. Y., in whiptp our whole time, energy and
services will be given which cannot foil to
be productive of signal benefit to tlie slave and
our nominally free brethren, when the head
and heart of Douglass enters into tlie combi
nation. We feel loath to leave our Mystery,;
but duty calls, and we must obey.
To all our friends and acquaintances, we re-.
turn thanks for the kindness and many fovors
shown us, while occupying the editorial chair
of the Mystery, and in whatever we may have j
erred, consider it of the head and not the
heart.
We could not conclude and do justice to our
own foehngs, if we omited to notice the Edi
torial corps in particular, We have ever
received from them, especially at home, that
degree of courtesy and respect common to the
rank, and have been received and commended
moor position beyond ail expeemtion, and
eve* perhaps beyond lent. We have receiv
«d the fullest possible Am of their welcome
to tbe profession. If we roast with half tbo
I welcome in oar new pines of residence, it wilj
i far exceed our expectation.
To our brethren and oppressed fellow men
everywhere, we give this assurance, that let
otrr lot be cast wherever it will, and our cir-
I cuinstances he what they may so long as
reason serrea as the dictator of our will, we
shall never cease to war against slavery and
oppression ofevery kind, and defend the cause
of the oppressed. Readers and Patrons, as
Editor of the Mystery, we b*f you Farewell.
M R. DELANY.
GEORGE B. TASffO*,
Thc following narrative will gire our
readers on both sides oi tbe Atlantic some
idea of the difficulties with w hich the nomin
ally free colored people of this counOf have
to contend, in the pathway of improvement
and elevation. Here is a colored young gen
tleman upon whom his father has expended
nearly his all, in educating ami fitting him for
a life of respectability and usefulness, driven
from home, friends, and family, by the bitter,
vulgar, and unnatural prejudice against color,
I which prevails in all parts of this boasted
republic. No charge is preferred against
turn; no suspicions are cast upon him; his
simple identity w ith the injured and enslaved
of our land, stamps him with the brand of
reprobation, and compels lam to be an outcast
I from the land of hts birth,
i We are personally acquainted with Mr.
Yashon, and can say, that we have seldom
met a more amiable, intelligent, and gentle
manly person, than himself. We esteemed
l him an ornament to tho people with whom he
,is identified. Our best wishes and warmest
aspirations go with him and we have no
j doubt, that prosperity aud happiness, denied
in his own land, will be extended to hnn in
j thc strange land to which he has gone. We
cannot, however, but express our regret that
he should think it best to leave this country.
The cause of our enslaved brethren requires
him here. His talents and manly independ
ence are the elements which must redeem
our race. We are happy to inform our
readers that arrangements have boon made I y
which they will frequently see letters in tho
North Star, from Mr. Yashon.
George B. Yashon, Esq. —This young
gentleman left our city yesterday lor Port-au-
Prince in the Island oi' St. Domingo. Mr.
Yashon is a native of this place. Some years
ago he went toOberlin, Ohio, where he pass
ed through a regular collegiate rni.rse, gradu
ating with hor.of and high rank in his eUts.
From O’jerlin he returned to thiscity, wlmre.
i for some two or three years, he engaged in
the stu.lv of the law, under the direction of the
Hon. \Y. ForuarJ. Having completed hss
legal studies, he applied to the froper com
mittee to undergo the requisite examination*
previous to his admission to the liar. A ma
jority of the Committee refused to examino
him, because his complexion was a shado
darker than their own. On Saturday last,
1 Mr. Yashon applied 10 the Court lor a rulo
upon the Committee, directing them teexam
ine him. The Judge refused the rule, for the
same reason that a major.ty of the Commrttoo
refused to examine Mr. Yashon. There «a.t
no pretence that the applicant is not of excel
lent moral character, of gentlemanly der>ort
‘l ment and well qualified for admission. In r.o»
j respect did he come short of the qualifications
j demanded by the Rules of Court. Had Mr,
Yashon possessed a doubtful character, been
intemperate or mil even learned, yet of pure
Anglo Saxon blood, his name would have
j been entered upon the roll of Attorneys. A
few drops ol African blood flowed in his veins,
and he was refused admission- to tho Bar.
He now leaves his native city, to take up his
.abode among strai gers, exjatnnted by the
cruel prejudices of his follow citizens. His
j learning n:,d talents will secure him, we doubt
not, gn at success ami honor in the land ofhia
I adoption. —Pittsburgh ‘Peltgraph*
i Anti-Slavery 1 air at AV est Wisrirto,
u» January 2tith and *27111,1818. —The friends
of the slave are invited to make preparations
for our next Fair, to be held alths time above
j mentioned. There is no tune to be lost. Tho
slave is still toiling, toiling, toiling,—hopeless,
helpless, desolate.—Woman, —ays, a million
of women are even now given up to the ten
der mercies of the palefaced oppressor. In
the name of these outraged ones, we ask each
and all of you to do somethisg—do whal you
can—do all that you ean, to hasten their de
liverance. Ask your ne ghbora to help you.
Many of them will willingly give their aid if
you will only invito them. Prejudice is giv
ing way. A spirit of inquiry is abroad,
h rcedom is gaining ground. Now is the time
for effort.
Charles Lenox Rcmnul, E. D. Hudson,
Lewis Hayden, J.C. Hathaway, and other
speakers will lie present.
Dolly Thomas, Miranda A. E. Green,
Sarah Guild, Phebe Backus,
Hannah Bneklin, Laura EldTed,
Emehnc Murdock, Julia Ann Euton,
Henrietta Bisby, Laura Turner,
Eveline Rider, Sophloro Thomas,
Alpha Thomas, Laura Colburn,
Susan Brown, Amanda Harding.
ID* W are happy to inform our fti:nds in
West Winfield, that present circumstance*
enable us to state, that we shall be present
with tiieitt at the Anti-Slavery Fair to be held
in that place on the 26th nrad 27th iest. To
make our visit as serviceable to the eaure a*
possible, we think our friends might appoint
Meeting* in one or two of the neighboring
towns.
Paw'tecjcet fair.—The Anti-Slavery
women of Pawtucket, Rhode Island, will hold
fheir Twelfth Annual Fair, at the Hall of the
Pawtucket Hotel, on the flit and lOth of
February, commencing at 10 o'clock, a. m.
It ur hoped that a larger attendance tlian
ever, will favor this annual gathering of the
tried and true and that they will not fad to
find the tables covered, in Unip»uif abundance,
with the usual supply of articles for use or
ornament, together with refreshments of every
desirable kind and quality.
The call is universal, Come, then, for tho
slaves' sake!
Hcbeec* Mitchell, F.liafcoth Shove,
Mary Peek, Maria Dexter,
Lydia Winn, J. J. Adams,
Mary A. Kenyon, Eater Reed,
Susan M. Shove, Abby Burgess,
Avia Susan, Amy Dexter,
Alunt Cfewnißgakield, Susan Sisson.
Ruth Stasoit,
NOTICE.
Charles lemtx Kerooad and Fredt tick
Douglass, wilt hold several meetings during
Saturday and Sunday, 2*l and 23d Jan., tn
Panayaa.
Io> Wo are glad to Warn, from public
notices, that Mr. T. C. Levawd ha*
noticed his Phonographic dawc* in Stuoc'i
Buildings, in Urn city. Those who ban
time at their command, eaiuwA employ
better than in attending a ewime of lessor.*
H i make .1 the study exceedingly into sting
and even if all who attend do not follow of
th~ to its full extent, so »s to *PP rc
emte its value and ceefulnc-s none can fat!
of bepig interested and of acquiring an intelli
gent understanding of tbe English language.
Tn* Heroewc* —Thw a aetni
montlily periodical, published in this city,
Hev. David Sue. Editor Ciias. A. W au*i
Publisher. Bi* devoted to the moral etv
terpnscs of ihe day, ami religious intelli
gence. J Its term* are but 50 cents pet
annum; and »e should suppose this m itsell
a sufficient inducement to warrant a wide
circulation.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A. P., ProriJene*. Remit ProriAenee bill*- The
same referred to bad been piared on the wrong H*t.
It is now rectified.
C. M. 8., Philadelphia. This friend wiß accept
oor *iucc’*‘ di' ki f>r hi* bW» in behalf of tbt
North Sui. Ibe copies hare been forwarded; a*
also one to h eat home*lead.
W. K., Pent W* hare added hi* name to the
list of agent*.
T. W., Marbleheau, Ma*s. Hi* cash list was
gratefully reeeieej. The copies hare been for-;
war.lc J. excepting No. Hi of which we are short.
We cannot adrme relative to the postage.
C. 11., Austinbur*, Ohio. We hare forwarcleJ a
second parcel, per request of 12;h inst.J
COM MUSICATIOSS.
SABBATH.
NUMBER TWO.
To the Editors of the North Star:
Gintuvu :—The subject ot my last let
ter appeared naturally to divide nsell into two,
parts —the causes which made it necessary to
pa* such a resolution, and lac subject of the
resolution itself. 1 have alrealy treated upon
the necessity, 11 the present state of public
.opinion, and the position t>f the Church, of
■passing such a resolution, aid, 1 hope, suc
ceeded in showing the importance of the mo
tion. I shall nmv treat of the subject of lhe
resolution itself —the Sabbath. 1 his is;
thj more important just .vow, ns public iiueu-j
lion appears to he directed to this point; two.
meetings having' been held in this city, within
the last, two weeks, lor the purpose iff adopt
ing, ainunp other movcm *nts, measures for 1
enforcing the better observance of this ordi
nance of the Church. If we trace this insti-j
tuiiuii as fir hack as we are able, we shall;
find it first mentioned in the account of the;
■creation given by M >s?a to the liiidre.i of,
Israel, as the foundation of toe law. Moses
says
And God blessed the seventh day, and
sanctified it, because in it lie had rested from
alj ilia works which God created ami made.
t T :wn tins circumstance, Moses founded the
severe, but necessary, institution of the Sab- j
hath. (Exodus xwi, 11-17.) Severe though
it was, it was, nevertheless, just, because
nccC'Sary for the purposft which its great;
Author had in view—the perfection and ulti-,
mate happiness of the human race. When
we consider the extensive operation of this j
principle in the Mosaic polity, the minuteness
of its details, and the severity of the punish- j
ments attending its infraction, we cease to
wonder that the Jews, after their return from
■captivity, should regard it with a kind ol
superstitious reverence, almost amounting to
awe. It was this extreme feeling of dread,
after the tifrrible judgments which they had
undergone for their departure from the insti
tutions of Moses, which toroed them under all i
their conquerers, and under all circumstances,
to agitate for the enjoyment of their own laws
and customs. This constant agitation and
determined maintenance of Jewish
■chiefly under the Roman empire, first brought
the Sabbath into general note and, no doubt,;
finally caused the adoption of what has been;
technically called the “Christian Sabbath.’
Very early after the Jews returned from Bab
ylon, it became customary for them to assem
ble on the Sabbath day for the purpose of.
Tending and hearing the law; and when the
Christian religion was introduced, they still re- j
mamed zealous of the law; (Acts xxi, 20-21;) j
and, no doubt, kept the Sabbath nearly as
strictly as they had previously done. And,
although the docilities of Christ and his aj'os
ties have been so long extant, and arc pretty
conclusive upon the subject, it docs not ap
pear, at present, to be rightly understood.
When Jes us Christ commenced his ministry,
the Pharisee* of that day found great fault
with him and his disciples, for not kecpii g the 1
Sabbath so strictly as th y were in the habit
of doing. Bat he tola them, that they were
altogether mistaken in regard to this mutter;!
that it was not only 44 lawful to do good on
the Sabbath day,” but even works of gomrnon
necessity were lawful; that the Pharisees
themselves, while they complained*of him
healing the sick, would do anything that
tended to the preservation of their own cattle.
Thus, it being necessary that ins disciples
should eat. made it also lawful to gather tin
«eoru on the Sabbath day, that they might eat.
Ho showed them, that even David, upon a
•case o* necessity, had entered mto the house
of God,” and lad eaten the shew bread,”
and bad given to tlswe who were with him,
which was equally unlawful, and could only
e justified by the necessity of the case. Now,
gentlemen, I ask the Pharisees of the present
day. if it is not e pally necessary that tc should
m-' t, to agitate for the freedom of th/' oppressed
and down-trodden stave, on the only day in the
week whSi the mass of the people are at lib
erty to h. ar, even if it be the Sabbath 1 But
these were nut the only case* of Sabbath
breaking winch the Savior showed them, that
were habitually occurring before their eves,
and apparently wnkcut observation. The
priests were constantly in the hab.t of dcse
cratmg the Sabbath, and wete blameless.”
They were obliged to hi fringe one part .if the
law that they might be able to keep another
entire. But Jesus told us, that Jhe Sab r
was marie for man, and not roan lor the Sab
bath.” If we an* to keep the SaMiath ac
cording to the traditiois of the Pharisees
(of tire present day) lustead of follow log the
instructions of the Saviour, ought they not U>
tell us by what rule we are to be guided, and
what are the penalties attached to its infrae-
twit 1 If tre ve bound to keep H* W 1"
tell ua how far w« wc to got and whew we
an> lo <ua Stull os that day, “do no
manor of wuA;” nor <*u tans, nor our
daughter** nor oui man-s-nenis, nor our
rmnd+errenu, nor our oxen, nor our asm,
nor any of our cvttk, not U»e the stronger tku
fjt uxthn ovr gaks, that all tbwe persona may
r,,t. a* well u w«t ShgJl we be aU«*cd>,
even to make a fire in our dwelling* on ifeat
day* are aome of the requirement* ot
the, Mosaic law, with regard to the Sabbath;
and death is the penalty for their infraction
If we arc bound to keep any part of it, it ap
pear* to me, that wc are bound to keep the
whole. Iu roy next, 1 will inquire h«w r
we are bound lo keep the SMeth, under the
Christian dispensation; or any other day an
swering thereto.
I am. Gentlemen, yours,
RICHARD SI'LLEV
EauTCM-—1 In the elerenth line of ike
second column of my fimt letter, lor wealth
iest read worthier.
TV INTER!
Tkr sullen giant is upon ua, breathing
hoar-frost from his nostrils, binding up the
streams, and lakes, and rivers, in hw icy
chains —throwing Ins snowy mantle over the
bare and lifeless fields—banging icicles from
our house caves, and drawing all manner ol
f.uitastic figures upon our windows. It is the
season of death and sterility of dark dreary
nights and cold, snowy, frosty days. The
summer-birds have foisakcn us, for a sunnier!
clime and warmer skies and instead of their
thrilling melody, wc now hear only the dis
mal moanings of the w ind among the leafless
branches, as if mourning over their death and
desolateness while our every footstep falls
soft and noiselessly, as if we trod w ith rever
ential awe the chamber where lie the remains
of deceased Nature.
Winter! There is beauty in Winter. Stern,
and sullen as he generally is, there is yet^an;
occasional gleam in his countenance, as he:
smiles upon us, in the clear sunlight of a;
frosty morning, when the snow glistens and:
sparkles with diamond brightness, and crisps,
beneath the tread, —blinding ihe eyes with)
excess of brilliancy; and still rooro, in the.
pale moonlight, when wc sec as it were an
innumerable host ot glow-worms, twinkling!
and sparkling all around. How beautifully;
graceful is the snow-drift, spread out in gentle
curves and slopes by the toad-side, white, and
pure, and spotless! and the snow flakes, as!
they fill soft and gently from the clouds, how
beautiful are they! Yes; even ia Winter,;
every o:ii may discern graces innumerable, if;
he would only go forth with a pare soul and a.
cl ar eye, 10 look for them.
Winter! What a host of pleasurable recol-;
lections doss thv rough old voice conjure up.
It is the time of social meetings and friendly
gatherings. and feasts—of sleigh-riding and
4easure-*eaking, in buffalo-ski us and com-j
for table overcoats! With all thy harsh ex-i
terior thou surely hast a warm heart; and we
will try to give then as friendly a greeting as
if thou hadst a more polished and gentle ex
terior; vet it may be well to remind thee of
the old proverb, that Short visits make long
friends.”
Winter! How the poor and friendless dread j
thy approach! How they shrink and cower
beneath thy icy touch, as they cluster around
a cheerless hearth, or roam, iu scanty cover
ing, beneath!thy inclement skies! Uis the
season that Heaven sends, for the exercise ofj
benevolence. Ye. on whom he has showered i
down plentifully of the good things of this
life, in the midst of your social meetings and,;
pleasure feasts, thinjc of the destitute, who I
crouch at your gates in tattered penury, or;
starve at home in sullen wretchedness. Give!
of your abundance, to supply a portion of their
wants. Stretch forth the brotherly hand of
eharitv. Remember that you are but stew'-;
ards of the gifts of Heaven feed the hungry; j
clothe the naked cheer the heart of the dis
consolate; give free scope to vour benevolent
nature let your love flow out to all. If you
know any to be vicious, pity their wretched
ness, while you hate their vice; relieve their
wants, while you reprove their iniquity.—
Speak to them kindly quench not within
their souls the small spark of humanity that
still faintly glimmers there; for the more
feebly the fire burns, the more gently, if you
wish it to become bright, and warm, and
vigorous, must you fan tbs flame. And thus,
will you prove that you are really devout and
religious for, as lias been truly said—
He prayetli best who loveth best
All tilings lwali great am) uuull;
For the dear Go 1 t!»at loveth us,
He ma ie and loveth all.”
And tliosa who so do will themselves also rc-j
ceivc a blessing.
The quality of merry is not straine
It dffippeth, as the gentle rain from heaven,
Upon the earth beneath. It is tw ice bleaa’t!—
It blcsseti) la.n tliat gives and lain dial takes.”
Winter! llow-apt an emblem of the de
praved mind! The avenues to the human
heart are s.-aled up by indulgence in vice; i
the eyes ot' the understanding become dull
and cloudy in its heavy atmosphere: and the
gree t summer leaves of love are rudely torn
away by the fitful blasts of its feverish ex
citement. The profligate—the drunkard—
the money-lover! Oh, how little summer is
there in their souls! The dreary winter-cold
of selfishness re gus there paramount, pro
ducing no sweet fruits of love—no gre m
1 leaves of charity—no genial showers of God
like benevolence. How dead and barren all!
how dry and w orthless. fit for destruction!
Winter! To the rich savannahs of the
South no Winter s *as»n conics. There the
sun ever shines on verdant fields and luxuriant
foliage; and frost and snow scarce find a
resting-place, llut a Winter of the soul,
more t. ruble arid enduring than the Winter
of Greenland, reigns there; a monster nu
quitv prevails there a Heaven-insulting wn
wi Id* iu iron sceptre over those sunny
regions, chasing away from them, amidst
isisuit and ignominy, nil that elevates and
etmoid-s mm. The sio of slaveholdmg lias
t litre frown up all the genial springs of Uie
Haul m ice-hand* of pride and a Ifit-hnew; it
has thrown over the understanding thick,
heavy mantle of prejudice; and the conscience
has become scared—callous—dead, in the
s chilling frosts of a wintry indifference to the
sufferings of oppressed humanity. Oh, what
a bi'koua Winter m that' No gleam of *un-
sbiac can ever pterc* into the gloomy reeeaie*
of these rmb that an windtaf arand them,
m thick and thicker mOm, the darit an of an*-
stealing. Slavehoidet* f Awake k* y®“*
witter torpidity Strike off the ahaekks firam
the limbo of your staves, and by ao dotng yao
will free yaureelves fnsu the mightier aad
more cursed bonda i* which yowr own aoul»
are held. Now, the world hold* yon in *b>
horrent*—point* the finger of at jw*~~
scosto and contemns ynw The aatnd of God
i. again* yon; the mmd of man ia agaa*
too and it baa happewed as yaw at thin, as
it doc m all eases of rdfenee agate* the law
of lore and mercy, that yoo are the great**
■ufT-rers by toot mm. May the day of your
awakening toon arrive! aad when yon hare
T h f off (he yoke, aad the fruits and flowers
of human sympathy—nurtured by the genial
summer light of Freedom—come to maturity
within your soul*, you will look beck, as to a
hideous dream, upon the wintry days of your
slaveholding bondage. -o-J. o.
TIIE OHIO BLACK LAWS.
The law-making party in Ohio (the Whig)
claim to be the true friend* of our race, yet
will not repeal the odious Black Laws, in
themselves infamous enough to disgrace any
nation. On December 6th, notice was gtven
of an iutenuon to bring in a repeal bill; but
little can be hoped in regard to its passage.
Many of the influential members of both
branches of the Legislature, say that tt is out
of their power until after the Presidential
election. One member declared, that if the
Black Laws are to be repealed, he would kav
the State. The bill has, however, been re
ferred to a select committee. Your readers
shall be informed of the action taken.
D. J.
Columbus, Ohio.
Poplar Ridge, Jan. 6, 1848.
Dear Friend Douglass Events do hap
p3n which ought to be told to expose the utter
shamelessness of their authors. I hate not
the vaniiy, lioweveT, to suppose that I can
chronicle them in such a manner as to interest
your readers. Ido often wish that I had the
power of giving vent to my indignation, when j
I hare the misfortune to witness what I did j
yesterday, at Northville, in Uus county.
A Locofoco ex-judge and a Whig Presby- j
tcrian deacon were in conversation, on the
subject of the Mexican war. The deacou ex-
pressed the opinion, unqualifiedly, that the
war was justifiable on the part of the United j
States; and he thought that our “national
honor required that ice should prosecute it
vigorously, until wc compel tha Mexicans to
pay the expenses of it, and give us an hon*
orabk pact. 1
Of course, the ex-functionary of state sub
scribed to all this, and said, further, that we
ought to push the matter through, right of
wrong.”
The church where this patriotic deacon at
tends was built new last year, and dedicated
to the worship of God and to be kept fer
that purpose only and, consequently, is not i
opened to the friends of the slave. 1
This fact is one of a thousand which show
that on ihe chuich rests the responsibility of
the iniquities of the land. Let her rottenness
je exposed, sod let her go down to posterity.
rated and despised of all honest men, as she
s now of God.
Yours, for Truth and Freedom,
H. COLLINS.
Detroit, January 9, 1848.
Messrs. Douglass Del any
Dear Friends —-The first number of the
North Star has been received. We are
exceedingly pleased with it. Enclosed $2
is for one year's subscription. You had better
adhere to the cash system it will save labor,
and prevent embarrassment.
A brief synopsis of matters and things here
may not be uninteresting.
For some weeks past, great effort* have
b?en made to enlist and equip a regiment of
Michigan Boys for Mexico. Six companies j
marched recently—all young men, in prime
life. Many were in teajs, and all looked
sad. Last summer, Captain Mcßeynolds left
here with 104 young men for the Halls of the
Montezuma*. The Captain returned a few
days since, wounded and, I understand, re
ports only 34 of his men alive, and 17 fit for
duty. Comment is unnecessary. What a
sad—what a diabolical thing is war!
Our legislature, at its last session, abolished
the Death Penalty. The past year has been
unusually prolific in murders. A few months
since, a man near Niles, in the western part
of the State, was shot down, robbed, and his
body left to rot in the woods. Not long since,
a colored man, in this city, had hi* brains beat
out, while in his own bed, by a drunken
rowdy. On Christmas eve, at Pontiac, an
altercation took place between two men one
stabbed the other, and he died next day. Last
Saturday evening, in the shadow of a Chris
tian church, in the most respectable part of
the city, a young man was stabbed to the
heart, and, without a groan, fell down a
corpse. 1 was well acquainted with him. He
was a native of Germany; and a very indus
trious and worthy young man. His murderer
was from the same country. These terrible
murders have thrown the city into consterna
tion and we bid fair to rival New Orleans.
Many think these outbreaks of passion and
revenge have been occasioned by abrogat
ing the death penalty and the legislature
will be flooded w ith petitions to reinstate it.
We shall soon have one of the be* rail
roads in the country, and one of the large*
depots on the continent. It I* 880 fleet long,
by 100 fleet wide built of bnek, and timbered
in the strongest manner. The Boston Com
panv, who purchased this road from the j
State, have infused new life into the whole
concern, and are rapidly pushing it to New
Buffalo, its terminus oil Luke Michigan.— i
There is one feature in die operations of this
company worthy of commendation. If any 1
of their servants or laborers are by
accident, they do, not stop their wages and
discharge them, but they receive their usual j
pay until fit for doty. Our city costumes to
improve. Effort* are now being mad* to
erect a commodious Exchange, on aa eligible
sue, now occupied by dilapidated old build
ings. The growth and improvement of oar
city is much retarded by the land proprietors.
They are mostly /dd Frenchmen and their
descendant*. They are devoid of Yankee
enterprise, public spirit or liberality. They
will neither aril, lease, nor improve their pro-
imaiirtf fan the «ky WTWwi
niiiiiiim ilMitodl pw«i»|
trilkfa.
Tlm» ii tiw fcit fc-
The eaniid fc» i®* to woodi
to a filaoo called Mirbigu, le Togta«
«rf,-«g«b
nank aad intellect, they ought Ii have feca
«at iata the woedi yc*» a**-
Y««i», wapecrfuiW,
HURON*.
From Parker’* Isewer oo Slavery.
•TATIATICA AND HISTORIT OF
SLATER Y*
I >rv£ -r
(tOATINUSB.)
Is the Convention of 17ST, which
i drafted the present Constitution of the
j United States, this matter of alaverT
tfai abundanttr diwtwwd; it vai (be
preat ob««tacle in the war of forrninp
j the Union, as now of keeping it. But
for the effoit* of South C'arolina, it ie
probable ala very would hare been abol
i.shed by the. Constitution. The Sooth
claimed the right of sending represen*
tatives to Cougress on account of their
slaves. Mr. Patterson, of New Jersey,
contended, that as the slaves had iki
representative or vote at home, theii
masters ceuid not claim additional votes
j in Congress on account of the slaves
Nearer all the speakers in the Conven
tion, except the members from So till
Carolina and (tsorfis, referred to the
slave trade mith horror. Mr. Gerry,
j of Massachusetts, declared, in the Con
vention, that it was “as humiliating tc
j enter into compact with the slaves ol
the Southern States, as with the horses
i and mtiles of the North.*’ It was con
tended, that if slaves were men, then
they should be taxed as men, and havt
their vote as men; if mere property
r j they should not entitle their owners t<
a vote, more than other property. I
might be proper to tax slaves, be
cause it has a tendency to discoarag*
slavery; hut to take them into accouni
in giving representatives, tended to en
courage the slave-trade, and to make
it the interest of the States to continue
that infamous traffic.” It was said,
that “we had just assumed a place
among independent nations, in conse
quence of our opposition to the attempts
of Great Britain to enslave us; that this
opposition was grounded upon the pre
servation of those rights to which God
and nature had entitled us, not in par
ticular, but in common with all the rest
of mankind; that we had appealed tc
the Supreme Being for his assistance,
as the God of heaven, who could nd
j hut approve our efforts to preserve the
rights which He had imparted to His
creatures; that now, when wc had
scarcely risen from our knees from
supplicating his aid and protection in
forming our government over a free
people—a government formed pretend
ingly on the principle** of liberty, and
for its preservation —in that govern
ment to have a provision, not only put
ting it out of its power to restrain or
prevent the slave trade, even encour-
I a r?i n g that most infamous traffic, and
giving states power and influence in
j the Union in proportion as they cruelly
and wantonly sport' with the rights ol
their fellow creatures ought to be
considered as a solemn mockery of,
and an insult to, that God whose pro
tection xve had then implored, and
could not tail to hold us up in detesta
tion, and render us contemptible to
every true friend of liberty in the
world.”
Luther Martin, the Attorney Gen
eral ol Maryland, thought it incon
sistent with the principles of the
Revolution, and dishonorable to the
American character,” to have the im
portation of .-laves allowed by the Con
stitution.
j The Northern States, and some of
the. Southern, wished to abolish the
slave trade at once. Mr. Pinckney, of
South Carolina, thought that State
“would never accede to the Constitu
tion, if it prohibits the slave trade;”
she “would not stop her importation of
slaves in any short time.” Said Mr.
Rutledge, of South Carolina, “The
people of the Carolinas and Georgia
will never be such fools as to give up
so important an interest.” Religion
and humanity have nothing to do with
this question. Interest alone is the
governing principle with nations.” In
apportioning taxes, he thought three
slaves ought to be counted as but one
free man; while in apportioning rep
resentatives, his colleagues Messrs.
Butler and Pinckney—declared, “the
blacks ought to stand on an equality
with the whites.” Mr. Pinckney would
“make blacks equal to whites in the
ratio of representation.” He went
further; he would have “some security
against an emancipation of slaves;”
and, says Mr. Madison, “seemed to
wish some provision should be included
[in the Constitution] in favor of pro
perty in slaves.” “South Carolina
and Georgia,” said Mr. Pincknev.
“cannot do without slaves.” The im
portation of slaves would be for the
interest of the whole Union; the more
slaves, the more produce to employ the
carrying trade, the more consumption
also.”
On the ether hand, Mr. Bedford, of
Delaware, thought “South Carolina
was puffed up with her wealth and her
negroes.” Mr. Madison, cool and far
sighted, always referring to first prin
ciples, was unwilling to allow the
importation of slaves till 1808: “So
long a term w ill be more dishonorable
to the American character than to sav
nothing about it in the Constitution.”
j Mr. Williamson, of North Carolina
in 1783, thought “slaves an encum
brance to society,” and was “both
in opinion and practice against sla
-1 rolonel Mann, of Virginia, in
the Convention, called the slave trade
lan infernal traffic,” and said that
Slavery discourages arts and manu
factures t the poor despise labor when
performed by slaves.” “They pro
duce the most pernicious effects on
manners. Every master of slaves is
j bom a petty tyrant. They bring the
judgment of heaven on a country
Mr. Dickinson, of Delaware, thought
it “inadmissible, on every principle of
iumov and safety, that the importation
ot slaves should be authorized.” Gouv
erneur Morris, of Pennsv Ivania, never
Jaw^j| rd T rst,C
the alar,-* Arf
Hi*™., amt let them ‘T*“ I**"'
property Why. th. n i. rV
pmprm irulmhd imihe’ra... 5 b r

'r rtK 1 m'
irtfy lan-*, .Might i«. U- r*„
lul W 4 I*, gut HIM ■M.1,,,1
All the North an at first opposed fro
slavery and the slave trade. Both par*
ties seemed obstinate; the question of
taxes on exports*’ and of navigation
laws, remained to be decided. Gouv
eraeur Morris recommended that the
whole subject of slavery might be re
ferred to a committee, including the
clauses relating to tlie taxes on exports
and to the navigation laws. These
things may form a bargain among the
j Northern and Southern States.” Says
Luther Martin, I found the Eastern
t States, notwithstanding their aversion
to slavery, were willing to indulge the
j Southern States, at least with tempo
rary liberty to prosecute the slave trade,
provided the Southern States would in
their turn gratify them by laying no re
strict ion on navigation acts.” The
North began to understand, if the con
templated navigation laws should be en
i acted, that, as Mr. Grayson afterwards
said, all the produce of the Southeri
States w ill be cairied by the Northers
States Oh f heir own terms, which ttiuel
be high." Mr. Clymer, of Pennsylva
j :.‘.a, declared, Tlie Western and Mid
dle States will be ruined, if not enabled
to defend themselves against foreigi
!i regulations;" w ill be ruined if they do
not have some navigation laws, giving
I Americans an advantage over foreign
vessels. Mr. Gorham, of Massachu
setts, said, The Eastern States hac
i no motives to union but a commercia
one.” The proffered compromise
would favor their commercial interests
It was for the commercial interest of tlie
South, said Mr. Pinckney, to have iu
restrictions upon the commerce; bui
considering the loss brought on th<
Eastern States by the Revolution, anc
their liberal conduct taward the viewt
of South Carolina, [in consenting to al
low slavery and the importation o!
slaves,] he thought that no fetters should
be imposed on the power of making
I commercial regulations, and his con
j stituents would be reconciled to the lib
erality.” So the North took the boon,
and winked at the “infernal traffic.’
W hen the question was put, there were
in favor of the importation of slaves,
Georgia, the two Carolinas, and Mary
land, with New Hampshire, Massachu
setts, and Connecticut. Opposed to il
were Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
j Delaware, and Virginia! Subsequent
ly, Mr. Ames, in the Massachusetts
Convention for the adoption of the Con
stitution, Northern States
have great advantages by it in re
spect of navigation.” In the Virginia
j Convention, Patrick Henry said, To
bacco will always make our peace with
them,” for at that time cotton was im
ported from India, not having become
a staple of the South. When the arti
i cle which binds the free States to deliv
i er up the fugitive slaves came to be
voted on, it was a new feature in
American legislation; not hinted at in
the Articles of Confederation;” hos
tile to the well-known principles of the
common law of England—which always
favors liberty—and the usages and
principles of modern civilized nations.
Vet new as it was, and hostile, it seems
not a word was said against it in the
I Convention. It was agreed to, new.
con.” Yet “the Northern delegates,”
says Mr. Madison, owing to their par
ticular scruples on the subject of sla
very, did not choose the word slave to
be mentioned.” In the Conventions
of the several States, it seems no re
monstrance was made to this article.
Luther Martin, returning home, said
to the House of Delegates, in Mary
land, At this time we do not generally
hold this commerce in so great abhor
rence as we have done; when our lib
erties w ere at stake, we warmly felt for
the common rights of men; the danger
being thought to be past, we are daily
growing more insensible to their
rights.”
W hen the several States came to a
dopt the Constitution, some hesitancy
i was shown at tolerating the slave trade
or even Slavery itself. In the Massa
chusetts convention, Mr. Neal would
not favor the making merchandise of
the bodies ot men.” Gen. Thompson
exclaimed, “shall it be said, that after
we have established our own independ
ence and freedom we make slaves of
others?” Washington has immortal
ized himself, “but he holds those in
slavery who have as good a right to be
free as he has.” All parties depreca
ted the slave trade in most pointed
terms. Slavery was generally detes
ted.” It was thought that the new
States could not claim the sad privilege
of their parents, that the South itself
would soon hate and abolish it. Sla
very is not smitten by an apoplexy,”
said Mr. Dawes, “yet it has received
a mortal wound and will die of consump
tion.” This reflection, with the “To
bacco” and Navigation laws” turned
the scale. Patrick Henry was no son
of New England, but knew well on what
hinges her political morality might turn,
by what means and which way.
In the New' York convention, Mr.
I Smith could not see any rule by which
slaves were to be included in the ratio
of representation, the very operation of
I it was to give certain privileges to men
who were so wicked as to keep slaves;”
to which Mr. Hamilton replied, that
4 4 without this indulgence no union could
possibly have been formed. But
considering those peculiar advantages
i which we derived from them, [the
Southern Slates,] it is entirely just that
they should be gratified. The South
ern States possess certain staples, to-
I bacco, rice, indigo, &.c., w hich roust be
capital objects in treaties of commerce
with foreign uatious; and the advauiage
will be felt in all states.” t
j In the Pennsylvania convention, Mr.
Wilson considered that the constitution
laid the foundation for abolishing Sla
very out of this country,” though the
period was more distant" than he could
I \ci klic mR States will
be under the control of Congress in this
1 particular, and slavery will never be in
tr duced amongst them;” “yet the
lapse of a few years, and congress will
have power to exterminate slavery from
within our borders.”
In the Virginia convention Gov.
Randolph regarded the slave trade as
infamous’ and detestable.” Sla
very was one of our vulnerable points.
Are we mu weakened bv the popula
tion of those whom we hold in slavery”? I
he ashed. Cul. Mason thought the
trade diabolical in ilsell and disgrace
fol to manhtnd.” He would not admit
ih** Wool hern Nates (Georgia and the
*‘aroloisß iuio the I’liem uithssthev
agreed to the discontinuance of this die
graceful trade." Mr. Tyler thought
“nothing could jmtfly ft.” P*nck
Henry, who contended for Slavery coo
feaaed “Slavery it detested,—we feel its
fatal effect*, —are deplore it with all tin
pity of humanity. It would rejeke
tty very soul that every one of toy fel
lowr-heinga was emancipated.” Said
Mr. Johnson, Slavery has been the
foundation of that impiety and dissipa
tion which have been so much dissemi
nated among car countrymen. If it
were totally abolished it would do muci
good.”
In the North Carolina convention n
was found necessary to aool- gize foi
the pro-slarery character of tne Con
stitution. Mr. Iredell in defence said
the matter of Slavery “was regulatec
with great difficulty and by a spirit o
concession which it would not be pru
dent to disturb for a good many years.’
It is probable that all the member?
reprobated this inhuman trafic ii
slaves], but those of South Carolim
and Georgia would not consent to ai
immediate prohibition of it.” V\en
it practicable to put an end to the im
portation of slaves immediately, it wouk
give him the greatest pleasure.”—
“When the entire abolition of Slavery
takes place it will be an event whicl
must be pleasing to every generoui
mind aad every friend of human nature.’
Mr. McDowal looked upon the slav<
trade as a very objectionable part o
the system.” Mr. Goudy did not wisl
“to be represented with negroes.”
Is the South Carolina convention Gen
Pinckney admitted that the Carolina:
and Georgia were so weak that the?
“could not form a union strong enougl
for the purpose of effectually protecting
each other;” it was their policy there
j fore to form a close union with th<
Eastern States who are strong;” thi
i Eastern States had been a jhe greates
sufferers in the Revolution, they hai
lost everything but their country am
their freedom;” “we,” the Carolina*
and Georgia, should let them, in soim
measure, partake of our prosperity.’
But the union could come only from a
compromise; “we have secured ar
unlimited importation of negroes foi
i twenty years.” We have obtained
a right to recover our slaves in what
ever part of America they shall take
refuge, which is a right we had not be
fore.” We have made the best terms
lur the security of this species of pro
i perty it was in our power to make; wc
would have made better if we could,
I hut on the whole I do not think them
bad.” No one in South Carolina, il
seems, thought Slavery an evil.
Thus the Constitution was assented
to as “the result of accommodation,”
thouch containing clauses confessedly
founded on unjust principles.” The
North had been false to its avowed con
victions, and in return higher tonnage
duties were imposed on foreign than or
American bottoms,” and goods import
ed in American vessels paid ten pet
cent, less duty than the same goods
brought in those owned by foreigners.”
The Navigationjlaws” and the To
bacco” wrought after their kind; South
Carolina and Georgia had their way.
I The North, said Gouverneur Morris,
j in the national Convention, for the
sacrifiea of every principle of right,
j of every impulse of humanity,” had
i this compensation, to bind themselves
I to march their militia for the defence
of the Southern States, for their defence
against those very slaves of whom they
complain. They must supply vessels
and seamen in case of foreign attack.
The legislature will have indefinite
power to tax them by excises and duties
on imports.”
Still, with many there lingered a
vague belief that Slavery would soon
perish. In the first Congress Mr.
Jackson, of Georgia, admitted that “it
was au evil habit.” Mr. Gerry and
Mr. Madison both thought that Congress
had the right to regulate this busi
ness,” and if they see proper, to make
a proposal to purchase all the slaves.”
But the most obvious time for ending
the institution had passed by; the feel
ing of hostility to it grew weaker and
w'eaker as the nation became united,
powerful and rich; its “mortal wound”
was fast getting healed.
Slavery.— Sergeant Talfourd puts
the following words into the mouth of
Huon, as expressive of the feelings of a
noble-minded slave:— Tribune.
“That I were dead! Oh, what is
death, compared to slavery! Brutes
may bear bondage—they were made
for it, when Heaven set Man above
them; but no mark, definite and in
delible, it put upon one man to mark
him from another, that he should live
his slave. Oh, heavy curse! to have
thought, reason, judgment, feelings,
tastes, passions, and conscience, like
another man, and not have equal liberty
to use them, but call his mood their
master? Why w as I born with passion
to be free—with faculties to use en
largement—w ith desires that cleave to
high achievements—and with sympa
thies attracting me to objects fair and
noble, and yet with power over myself:
as little as any beast of burden? Why
should I live? There are of brutes
themselves that will not tame, so high
in them is nature; —whom the spur and
lash, instead of curbing, only chafe into
prouder mettle; —that will let you kill
them, ere they will suffer you to master
them. I am a man, and live!”
j
From the Reformed PireUyteriaii,Vol.Vll. No. 1.
UNITED STATE#* CONSTITUTION
WEIGH* D IN THE BALANCE.
The Christian is required to prove
all things, in order that he may hold
fast that which is good. His attention,
hoTTc-vt* will be directed pxiacipedly
to those things in which he is expected
to bear an active part; and these will
claim bis inve-tigation, in proportion
to their importance. The constitution*
of the churches and nations occupy a
conspicuous place in these investiga
tions and the constitution of the church
and of the nation in which he ie placed,
claim a prominent position among the
churches and the nations. To the
conscientious Christian of every deno
mination it, these United States, the
cuootitutioa of the national government
cannot fad to he a subject of much m
•ttwat. JIV object «f this eaeny in to
of latestigatiMi, in proving the moral
character of that instrument. No la*
boiled ar|uncflt »intended; but merely
to put the balance of the aanetaary into
the reader’s hand, and assist him in
adjusting it, that he, may perform the
weighing himself. The several objec
tionable articles of the constitution are
placed in juxtaposition with collateral
articles from the Scriptures, and both
presented at one view. The several
articles here presented ought to be ex
amined in their respective connexions;
and every man should try to do his own
j thinking. Without denying that there
i are many things in the* constitution ol
the United States, which, for the matter
of them, are good, we leave to others
the more agreeable service of collating
them with the divine law, in the same
manner.
I. The object» proposed in its forma
Horn.
cosrnvcrtos. nivtsa lav.
5 j PrrmmMt—JWr, the pco- H«*s. viii. 4. Thry h»Tf
I plr of the I tiite«l State*, set up kinjjv Urt n*>t by
I it» order lo form a ax** me tb»v have made
perfect unk>o, evtablisii prinrt-s, hoi 1 knew it not.
p»tM-r, insure domestic t Cor. SI. Whether,
tnimjmHki, provide far therefore, ye cat or drink,
the mmovHi <!cfen*c, pru- or whatstever ye do, <fo
root** the general we hit re, all to the chary of (toil.
1 and secure the hleatinf* Col. it*. 17. And what
of liberty to ourselves and soever ye uo in word oi
our posterity, do ordiun deed, do all in the name
and establish this const «o» of the Lord Jesus.
1 tion for the United States Lev. kt. 10. Proclaim
i of America. liberty thn««r*!out all the
i land, unto all the inhabit
ants thereof.
k
t ll. The representation.
1 comTimiot. nivisa law.
Art. 1, 2, c/<i*m> 3, Pi. cxv. 16. The bea-
Representatives ami di- ven,even the heavens arc
reel taxes shall he appor- the Lords; hut the earth
tinned among the several liathbe given to the child
r States which may be in- ren of men.
I eluded within this Union, Exrk.xlvn.32. Ye shaP
according in their res- divide it by lot for an in
pective numbers, which heritance unto you, anil
shall be determined by to the strangers tliat so
adding to the whole mini- jiwrn among you ami
her of free persons, in- they shall lie unto you ai
eluding those bourn! to born in the country anions
service for a term of years, the children of Israel
I and excluding Indians not they shall have inherit
taxed, three-filths of all aye with you among th«
other persons. tribes of Israel.
5 And it shall come t<
pass, that in what tribe the stranger sojoumeth
th-re shall ye give bun his inheritance, saitb tin
Lord.
l Acts xv ii. 26. And hath made of one blood all na
tions of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth
The distinction here made betweer
I “free persons” and ‘‘all other per
sons,” is an example of the kind o
justice established, and of the extent o
liberty secured to our precious selves
All other persons means slaves.
Here are two new injuries inflictec
on the slave besides the old one of de
priving him of liberty. First, he u
reckoned at the value of only three
fifths of a man; although dignified with
the name person,” he is forty pet
cent, below the estimation in which we
hold ourselves.” Secondly, the poli
tical weight of this three-fifths, is put
into the scale with the master, making
him something above par in political
1 value, because he is a tyrant. Even
among “ourselves,” the slaveholder
stands pre-eminent; so that the slave
holding States have a much greater re
i presentation in the general government,
j in proportion to the number of persons
actually represented, than the free
states which preponderance always
has acted, and may reasonably be e.x
pected always to act against the inter
ests of the slave, and in open.violation
of the great principle of the divine law,
Whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to
them;” and is in opposition to the spe
cial provisions made by the same law,
for the stranger, Lev. xxiv. 22, “Ye
shall have one manner of law, as well
for the stranger as for one of your own
country.” Num. xv. 10, One law
and one manner shall be for you and
j the stranger that sojourneth with you.”
lII. The Slave Trade.
COSSTITUTIOS. DIVIXE L A XV.
Art. 1, 9, clau.e 1, Ex.xxi.l6. And he that
The imgratiim or import- stealetb a man and acll
ation of such persons us eth him, or if he be found
a-iy of the states now ex- in his hand, he shall sure
isting xlml! think proper ly be put to death,
to admit, shall not be pro- Ezek. xxvii. 13. They
liibitc I by tin- Congiess, traded the persons of men
prior to the year eighteen and vessels of brass in
hundred aud eight; but a thy market. .Ver.27, Thy
tax or duty may be im- riches, shall fall into
posed on such impnrjp- the midst of the seas in
tion, not exceeding ten the day of thy ruin. V'er.
dollars for each person. 36, Thou shall lie a terror,
and never shah be any
more.
Rev. xviii. 10. A las, alas, that great city, Bahy
lon, that mighty city! form one hour is thy judgment
come. Ver. 11, .No man buyeth her merchandise
any more. Ver. 13, Sheep, ami horses, and cha
riots, and slaves, and souls of men.
The term importation is used only in
relation to property; and here wc have
importation of men, women, and child
ren, and a tax levied on such importa
tion, dignifying them with the name of
persons,” and in reality treating them
as property. The earth is the Lord’s
and the fulness thereof; he has given
it to the children of men. See the
title-deed, Gen. i. 28—30, where the
Creator makes over to man the right
of property in certain articles there
specified; but no mention is made of
property in his fellow-inan. After man
had lost this right by sin, it was re
newed by the Redeemer; but in the
renewed charter, as it is presented,
Gen. ix. I—3, there is no mention of
this new species of property. Even to
this day the right of property in man
seems to be among the imperfect rights.
Under this clause of the Constitution
the nefarious slave-trade was legalised
for more than twenty years. It is not
true, what some assert, that this is now
a dead letter since the year 1808; for
the slaves imported under this provi
sion, and their children, are still held
as property, and their cries are enter
ing into the ears of the God of Sabaoth.
The property imported under this
clause has never yet been cleared.
The holders have “duty” to pay in
the court of heaven.
GALVANISM.
The Rev. Dr. Humphrey, furuarl/
of Amherst, is engaged in making some
very interesting experiments upon the
dead body of African Colonization. He
lias provided himself with a battery
well furnished with silver plate* from
the pockets of the cruel and credulous,
and ia attempting to galvanise the thing
into life. It has already given a few
spasmodic kicks, which it somehow
contrives lo plan' in the faces of its
victim*-—the tree colored people; but
whether a will evwr he aide to ner ami
walk, ia very problematical Perhaps
H may. when the public cosum irnci gets
thoroughly drugged with glory,” dis
tilled from the hnAea hones, crushed
beams, perforated heart* of the Mnt
cans; for all sorts of devUism may be
expected to flourish then.
A project more utterly bereft of
every element of humanity, or more
cunningly deviaed to strengthen a mean
and malignant prejudice against the
African race, and thus, in other ways
to strengthen the system of slavery,
than the Colonization Society, wan
never devised by evil men. Dnce.
many true philanthropists were daped
by its double-dealing and its specious
pretensions; but now, after the full ex*
posure of its influence and designs, it is
difficult to believe that any one who
reallv loves his fellow-inan and hates
slavery, can have any connection what
ever with it. Its appeal* are to what
is basest in the human heart; and it
can no more live in the at Biosphere ol
a pure Christianity, than Satan could
live in heaven. As soon as men learn
ito regai d each other as brethren, and
(God as the common Father ol all, they
w ill no more think of banishing a n»n
from his native land because of his
complexion, than they would of eating
him. Were all the blacks in our coun
try, by some miraculous interposition
to be suddenly changed into w hites, we
should hear bo more of the beauties o!
i African Colonization. —Charter Oak.
Rev. James T. Woodbury of Acton
Mass., brother of the Hon. Levi Wood
bury, when delivering lectures on the
subject of Slavery, not unfrequently ad
verts to the circumstance which drewr his
attention to the subject. During his
stay in the Capital of the United States,
he had a wish to visit the tomb of Wash
ington. He was attended by an aged
negro, whose business it has been for
many years, to guide travellers to that
consecrated spot. This old man was
formerly the slave of General Washing
ton. Mr. Woodbury asked him if he
had any children.
I have had a large family,” he re
plied.
And are they living?” inquired the
gentleman.
The voice ofthe aged father trembled
with emotion, and the tears started to
his eyes, as he answered:
“I don’t know whether they are
alive or dead. They were all sold
away from me:—and I don’t know what
became of them. I am alone in the
world—without a child to bring me a
cup of cold water in my old age.”
Mr. Woodbury looked on the infirm
and solitary being with feelings of deep
compassion.
And this thought he is the fate of
slaves, even when owned by so good a
man as General Washington! VN ho
would not be an abolitionist?”
SLAVERY and THE SLAVE TRADE.
We extract the following from the Eight!
Annual Report of the British ami Eoreigi
Anti-Slavery Society
THE EMANCIPATED COLONIES.
However much it may be disputec
by interested pers ns, the Cornmittet
are of opinion that the great draw
back on the general prosperity of tht
emancipated colonies will be lomid in
the present laws affecting labor, and
the blind rage which exists among n
certain portion of the West India body,
for the introduction of large masses ol
immigrant laborers into them. The
laws are so constructed as to drive
labor almost exclusively into one chan
nel, and to place the laborers at the
mercy of their employers. This, of
eourse, creates discontent, ‘and may
soon lead to consciences opposite to
those which are intended. The .'otre
duction of immigrants, at the expanse
of the colonial treasuries, imposes bur
dens too heavy for them to bear. The
large drain upon the resources of the
people over and above that which the
civil service requires, impoverishes
them. The gains flow at present into
the hands of comparatively few; hut
this state of things cannot continue
long.
With respect to the conduct of the
emancipated classes, their general
freedom from crime, and their advance
in knowledge and respectability, it is
most satisfactory to be able to report
not only favorably, hut triumphantly.
The Committee would gladly produce
the proofs, but the limits of their report
will not permit them.
THE INTRODUCTION OF SLAVE-CROWN
PRODUCE INTO BRITISH MARKETS.
The Committee did not anticipate, at
the last annual meeting of the Society,
that the principle on which slave-grown
sugars had been excluded from the
British markets, would have been so
readily abandoned. They need not
recall the painful subject to the atten
tion of their friends, further than to
state, that, after using their best efforts,
to avert a step which, in their deliber
ate judgment, could not fail to inflict
additional injury on Africa, and grie
vous wrong on the slave population in
South America and the foreign West
Indies, they found nothing remaining
for them to do but to enter their decided
protest against it. The measure which
filled them with grief, was received in
Cuba and Brazil with exultation; the
value of slave property immediately
rose; the investment of fresh capital in
estates cultivated by slaves followed;
and a new impulse was given to the
slave trade. To counteract, as far as
possible, the injnrious tendency of this
measure, the Committee have felt it to
be their duty, earnestly and urgently,
to call on their friends, and the iriends
of the slave, to refrain, as far as prac
ticable, from the use of slave-labor
produce; and to recommend the same
practice to others, as an import am
auxiliary means to promote the extinc
tion of both slavery and the slave
trade.
frocrms or axti-slavert in ra**ic.
The fruits of anti-slavery efTorts.
based on right principles, begin to
pear in France. This great country,
the Committee hope, m about to redeem
rta character, and that no great pern at
will be allowed to elapae before ,t g„ r
freedom to da slave*. |Vm ton* mfned
b» upwards of lI.HUM of g« miaens
prayiwfi bur tht* immediate and complete
a bo In ten of slavery, bare engaged ih«
attention of lb* Chambers of Pe. rs and
I front lea.
Tbrae petition* were signed bv three
Mtbnga, nineteen vir era-general, eight
hundred and Mt-ngM rvrti, vn *r« 01
priests, eighty-six presidents of consis
tories and pastors of the Protestant
Church, sevea members of the insti
tute, one hundred and fifty-one elective
councillors, two hundred and thirteen
magistrates and members of the bar,
and upwards of nine thousand me*l
chants, proprietors, and workmen.
The discussion in the Chamber of
Peers was unsatisfactory in it* charac
ter and result. The recommendations
of the petitioners were set aside, nof a
single peer besides the Count de Men
tal* mbert speaking on behalf of the
suffering and oppressed slaves. The
report on the petitions proposed pa-sing
to the order of the day, which w* s
done without a division. 'I he ea-e,
however, was different in the Chamber
of Deputies. There, after two dai sof
earnest dehate, in which M. Jules de
Lasteyrie, M. Lacrosse, and M. Le
dru-Kollin greatly distinguished fh« m
solvcs; and notwithstanding every ef
fort on the part of M. Jollivet, the paid
delegate for the colonies, and M.
Baron Mackau, the Minister of Mamie
and Colonies, tire petitions were ordered
to he formally laid before the President
of the Council, the Minister of Marine,
and the Minister of Justice. 'I bis was
a great triumph. The warmest thanks
of every abolitionist in this country are
eminently duo to the distinguished mers
who so nobly and eloquently vindicated
the rights of the slaves. We trust the
triumph which has been achieved will
be followed up,-and that the petitions
next year will be multiplied a hundred
fold.
t SLAVERY IN THE NORTH-WEST
TERRITORY.
Si.avf.hoi.ding Missionaries among
the Indians. —Richard Mendenhall, a
Friend, stationed among the Shawnee
Indians, writes to the Xaliotutl Fro,
i under date of “Friends’ Shawnee
School, Indian Territory, 10 mo. IJOth,
1847,” that slavery exists in that terri
tory as far north as the 00th degree of
north latitude. A few slaves are held
j by a single Indian chief, who, he says,
is the only Indian in that part of the
Territory, so far as he knows, who
either holds or employs a slave. He
says many ot the Indians are opposed
to slavery, and will not deliver up fu
gitives; w hile others w ill, for a reward,
or fearing the fate of the Seminole*,
apprehend and give them up; thus
proving that they are receiving the
vices, if not the virtues of civilization.
But,” the writer continues, it is
white men in the service of the goverrv
ment of the United States, and niisaion
aries, that have introduced slavery
here. And some may he startled at
the information that missionaries have
slaves; but startling as it mav he, such
is the fact. I presume that no one will
be more surprised than 1 was, on o m
ing here, to lind such a state of things.
I There is a very extensive missionaiy
j establishment here, under the eaic of
the Methodist Church South, and,
strange as it may appear, they have
some half dozen or more slaves, to
assist in civilizing and Christianizing
the Indians. Is not this the climax of
inconsistency And this system of oper
ations is not without its results; for
some of the children who have been at
this mission have that aversion to labor
which is so common among w hite peo
ple in a slaveholding community; w hirl*
is a sad state of things, for it is highly
important that these Indian children
should he trained to habits of industry.
My object, in bringing this ruhjei t
to public notice is, that something may
he done for the removal of slavery from
this part of the Territory, Cannot (his
subject he laid before the proper autho
rities J ‘t Washington After thu*
briin'in" it to public notice, I shall look
to the friends of in the cast to
attend to it.
U this object should be parried out,
it might subject me to hitter persecu
tion here, and perhaps oblige me n?
leave the Territory; but, after mature
deliberation, I have determined to
bring the subject to public notice at all
hazards. lam engaged in labors of a
public natun for the good of a much
injured people; and a.though my lot is
at present cast among the iudiaus, vet
I am no less a friend to the sable sfns
of Africa than to the poor outra"cd
Indian.”
A Colored British Governor.—
By recent V\ est India papers w e learn
that the Lieut. Governor had left for
England, and that a Mr. James Lang
Biemner, a colored gentleman, lias
assumed the reins of government. It
is said, he is the first of his race who lias
had the honor of representing the sove
reign as the governor of a British
colony.
Can they sell a Freeman ?—lt is
said, that 1). Burns, a colored school
master, at Wilmington, Delaware, has
been sentenced to ten months’ unpns
onrnent, and to he sold as u slave, out
of the state, for aiding the escape of
slaves.
Emancipation of Slaves in French
Guiana. —-The colonists of Guiana,
having considered the subject of the
emancipation of their slaves, propose to
pass an immediate uct of emancipation,
on condition that the slaves thus eman
cipated shall be bound to service for
years, and remain with the plantation;
that France shall pay a-piece for
every slave emancipated, two-thirds of
which shall go to the owners, and the
remainder to constitute a fund to pav
for importing laborers fniu Asia and
Africa.
Mas* i Avt is If r-A»» —TV f*Wv «f
Mr d« Sulhomjf funtvtrffl h> I.w.
In r. if— to many M |r M rsn
rej*l and write*. IV pour*
Ifitr sound pms*i|k that a.aoau must «r*»
<jiiabfied In outrun bi-r oflhpruiz too •hr
l»e permit led to marry 1 In* pfiMiptr, fully
»mt umveraaHv acted on, wntild alitiNi Hie
wtfrM move rap dty in n* ckhi i>t usynse
wvt Uiau any other raua* withm ih« lanyt*
iff tsamihiltti W »rr ill »i4ieti loatrwetrd
Mw edtM-At> <1 areorthiiff to lk* ir aptUilttir*,
Vrr Would hr an r»lt-u» and thuftee mi do-
SMr rdueairwi that would u<lL •ih r «mm
la* or* bit ihr i hatart* rof a p ijhi than lit*
bst ut|thiir*i wh*»»l u« Ih> Uilff
iodis'd, cannot hair ihrit ti*tl Hfcwt without
ihe ho mum Wh it a lii td t artiallt M
law m a j*tm*t*» »wnwmwi>i hie Inland,
-an hr darted an lt weft* hift h u<
iltww nmiw r» llxoel end *itlh*.»l hi o* **l
adorer* and |***tdir hum ion t Aa* A
